This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



Hosted by GoOgle 



I .; 






^SlH' 



I v. 







/'''("''! 



';;, ^ 










%; i,: 












, C'/r,J"^>£. 






fwr\ ■ 



. i) iO/ ,-: -i, ~ .. 



i '''J/ 



IV. r 



\ 



'■M> 






> ' 



#iM % 



Tv 






l*?/.-- '<< lw 



^c i 'I 



i' ii ; 0fj\ \\ ($, fc'io ,>; 









Hosted by GoOgle 



/ 6 OP ^ 



Hosted by GoOgle 



Hosted by GoOgle 



if 



15 



A DICTIONAEY 



p MODERN SLANG, CANT/: 
VULGAR WORDS, 

■ l; _ USED AT THE PRESENT DAY IN THE STREETS OF LONDON ; TUB UNIVERSITIES OF OXFORD 

J AND CAMBRIDGE ; THB HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT : THE DENS OF ST. GILES ; 

I AKD THE PALACES OF ST. JAMES. 



PRECEDED BY A 

HISTORY OF CANT AND VULGAR LANGUAGE; 

WITH 

1 GLOSSARIES OF TWO SECRET LANGUAGES, 

SPOKEN BY THE WANDERING TRIBES OF LONDON, THE COSTBlQiOIsUiiKS 



fi !i 



AND THE PATTERERS. 



By A LONDON ANTIQUARY. 



"Rabble-charming words, which carry s<, i 



>uch wild-fire wrapt up in fu."— ■ < 



SECOND EDITION,, 

REVISED, WITH TWO THOUSAND ADDITIONAL WORDS. 
LONDON; 

JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN, PICCADILLY. 

1360. 



Hosted by G00gk 



\ ; T 



LONDON : 

TRIKTBD ET TAYLOR AND GREENING, GRAYSTOKE-PLACE, 

FETTER-LANE, E.C. 



pi 



Hosted by GoOgle 



? 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



The First Edition of this work had a rapid sale, and 
within a few weeks after it was published the entire 
issue passed from the publisher's shelves into the hands 
of the public. A Second Edition, although urgently 
called for, was not immediately attempted. The First 
had been found incomplete and faulty in many respects, 
and the author determined to thoroughly revise and 
recast before again going to press. The present edition, 
therefore, will be found much more complete than 
the First; indeed, I ma}^ say that it has been en- 
tirely rewritten, and that, whereas the First contained 
but 3,000 words, this gives nearly 5,000, with a mass 
of fresh illustrations, and extended articles on the 
more important slang terms — humbug, for instance. 
The notices of a Lingua Franca element in the lan- 
guage of London vagabonds is peculiar to this edition. 

My best thanks are due to several correspondents 
for valuable hints and suggestions as to the probable 
etymologies of various colloquial expressions. 

One literary journal of high repute recommended a 



Hosted by G00gle 



VI PREFACE. 

division of cant from slang; but the annoyance of 
two indices in a small work appeared to me to more 
than counterbalance the benefit of a stricter philo- 
logical classification, so I have for the present adhered 
to the old arrangement ; indeed, to separate cant from 
slang would be almost impossible. 

Eespecting the hieroglyphics of vagabonds, I 
have been unable to obtain further information; but 
the following extract from a popular manual which I 
have just met with is worth recording, although, 
perhaps, somewhat out of place in a Preface. 

u Gipseys follow their brethren by numerous marks, such as 
strewing handfuls of grass in the day time at a four lane or 
cross roads ; the grass being strewn down the road the gang 
have taken ; also, by a cross being made on the ground with a 
stick or knife, the longest end of the cross denotes the route 
taken. In the night time a cleft stick is placed in the fence at 
the cross roads, with an arm pointing down the road their com- 
rades have taken. The marks are always placed on the left-hand 
side, so that the stragglers can easily and readily find them." — 
Snowderis Magistrates Ass-istant, 1852, p. 444. 

Piccadilly, March 15th, 1860. 



Hosted by G00gk 



PREFACE TO THE FIBST EDITION. 



If any gentleman of a studious turn of mind, who may 
have acquired the habit of carrying pencils and note- 
books, would for one year reside in Monmouth Court, 
Seven Dials ; six months in Orchard Street, West- 
minster ; three months in Mint Street, Borough ; and 
consent to undergo another three months on the ex- 
tremely popular, but very much disliked treadmill 
(vulgo the "Everlasting Staircase"), finishing, I will 
propose, by a six months' tramp, in the character of a 
cadger and beggar, over England, I have not the least 
doubt but that he would be able to write an interesting 
work on the languages, secret and vulgar, of the lower 
orders. 

In the matter of slang, our studious friend would 
have to divide his time betwixt observation and re- 
search. Conversations on the outsides of omnibuses, 
on steamboat piers, or at railway termini, would de- 
mand his most attentive hearing, so would the knots of 
semi-decayed cabmen, standing about in bundles of 



Hosted by G00gk 



Vlll PREFACE. 

worn-out great-coats and haybancls, betwixt watering 
pails, and conversing in a dialect every third word of 
which is without home or respectable relations. He 
would also have to station himself for hours near 
gatherings of ragged boys playing or fighting, but ever 
and anon contributing to the note-book a pure street 
term. He would have to " hang about" lobbies, mark 
the refined word-droppings of magniloquent flunkies, 
a run after" all the popular preachers, go to the Inns 
of Court, be up all night and about all day — in fact, 
be a ubiquitarian, with, a note-book and pencil in hand. 

As for research, he would have to turn over each 
page of our popular literature, wander through all the 
weekly serials, wade through the newspapers, fashion- 
able and unfashionable, and subscribe to Mudie's, and 
scour the novels. This done, and if he has been an 
observant man, I will engage to say, that he has made 
a choice gathering, and that we may reasonably expect 
an interesting little book. 

I give this outline of preparatory study to show the 
reason the task has never been undertaken before. 
People in the present chase after respectability don't 
care to turn blackguards, and exchange cards with the 
Whitechapel Pecker or the Sharp's-alley Chicken, for 
the sake. of a few vulgar, although curious words; and 
we may rest assured that it is quite impossible to write 
any account of vulgar or low language, and remain 
seated on damask in one's own drawing room. But a 



Hosted by G00gk 



PREFACE. IX 

V 

fortunate circumstance attended the compiler of the ] 

present work, and he has neither been required to reside \ 

in Seven Dials, visit the treadmill, or wander over the 
country in the character of a vagabond or a cadger. 

In collecting old ballads, penny histories, and other 
printed street narratives, as materials for a History of 
Cheap or Popular Literature, he frequently had occasion 
to purchase in Seven Dials and the Borough a few old 
songs or dying speeches, from the chaunters and pat- ' 

terers who abound in those neighbourhoods. With 
some of these men (their names would not in the least 
interest the reader, and would only serve the purpose 
of making this Preface look like a vulgar page from 
the London Directory) an arrangement was made, that 
they should collect the cant and slang words used by 
the different wandering tribes of London and the 
country. Some of these chaunters are men of re- 
spectable education (although filling a vagabond's 
calling), and can write good hands, and express them- 
selves fluently, if not with orthographical correctness. 
To prevent deception and mistakes, the words and . 
phrases sent in were checked off by other chaunters 
and tramps. Assistance was also sought and obtained, 
through an intelligent printer in Seven Dials, from the 
costermongers in London, and the pedlars and huck- 
sters who traverse the country. In this manner the - 
greater number of cant words were procured, very 
valuable help being continually derived from Mayhem's 



Hosted by G00gk 



r 



/ 



^ 



PREFACE. 



London .Labour and London Poor, a work which had 
f gone over much of the same ground. The slang and 

f" vulgar expressions were gleaned from every source 

which appeared to offer any materials ; indeed the 
references attached to words in the Dictionary fre- 
quently indicate the channels which afforded them. 

Although in the Introduction I have divided cant 
from slang, and treated the subjects separately, yet in 
I the Dictionary I have only, in a few instances, pointed 

I out which are slang, or which are cant terms. The 

task would have been a difficult one. Many words 
which were once cant are slang now. The words pbig- 
and cove are instances in point. Once cant and secret 
terms, they are now only street vulgarisms. 

The etymologies attempted are only given as contri- 
butions to the subject, and the derivation of no vulgar 
term is guaranteed. The origin of many street words 
will, perhaps, never be discovered, having commenced 
with a knot of illiterate persons, and spread amongst 
a public that cared not a fig for the history of the 
word, so long as it came to their tongues to give a 
vulgar piquancy to a joke, or relish to an exceedingly 
familiar conversation. The references and authorities 
given in italics frequently show only the direction or 
probable source of the etymology. The author, to 
avoid tedious verbiage, was obliged, in so small a work, 
to be curt in his notes and suggestions. 

He has to explain also that a few words will, pro- 



Hosted by G00gk 



V 



PREFACE. 



bably, be noticed in the Slang and Cant Dictionary that 
are questionable as coming under either of those de- 
signations. These have been admitted because they 
were originally either vulgar terms, or the compiler 
had something novel to say concerning them. The 
makers of our large dictionaries have been exceedingly 
crotchety in their choice of what they considered re- 
spectable words. It is amusing to know that Richard- 
son used the word humbug to explain the sense of 
other words, but omitted it in the alphabetical arrange- 
ment as not sufficiently respectable and ancient. The 
word slang, too, he served in the same way. 

Filthy and obscene words have been carefully ex- 
cluded, although street-talk, unlicensed and unwritten, 
abounds in these. 

" Immodest words admit of no defence, 
For want of decency is want of sense." 

It appears from the calculations of philologists, that 
there are 38,000 words in the English language, in- 
cluding derivations. I believe I have, for the first 
time, in consecutive order, added at least 3,000 words 
to. the previous stock,— vulgar and often very objec- 
tionable, but still terms in every-day use, and employed 
by thousands. It is not generally known, that the 
polite Lord Chesterfield once desired Dr. Johnson to 
compile a Slang Dictionary; indeed, it was Chester- 
field, some say, who first used the word humbug. 



Hosted by G00gk 



V 



r 

4 



7 



PREFACE. 



Words, like peculiar styles of dress, get into public 
favour, and come and go in fashion. When great 
favourites and universal they truly become household 
words, although generally considered slang, when their 
origin or antecedents are in quired into. 

A few errors of the press, I am sorry to say, may 
be noticed ; but, considering the novelty of the sub- 
ject, and the fact that no fixed orthography of vulgar 
speech exists, it will, I hope, be deemed a not unin- 
teresting essay on a new and very singular branch of 
human inquiry; for, as Mayhew remarks, "the whole 
subject of cant and slang is, to the philologist, replete 
with interest of the most profound character." 

The compiler will be much obliged by the re- 
ceipt, through Mr. Camden Hotten, the publisher, 

OF ANT CANT, SLANG, OR VULGAR WORDS NOT MEN- 
TIONED IN THE DICTIONARY. THE PROBABLE ORIGIN, 
OR ETYMOLOGY, OF ANY FASHIONABLE OR UNFASHION- 
ABLE VULGARISM, WILL ALSO BE RECEIVED BY HIM 
WITH THANKS. 

Piccadilly, June mil, 1859. 



Hosted by G00gk 



J 



L 






i 



1 

1 



^ 

\ 



CONTENTS. 



THE HISTORY OF CANT, OR THE SECRET 
LANGUAGE OF VAGABONDS. 

TAGE 

Black and Coloured Vagabonds —Vagabonds all over 

Europe — Vagabonds Universal ... ... 1 — 5 

Etymology of Cant — Cant used in old times — Differ- 

Ience between Cant and Slang ... ... ... 5 — 7 

The Gipseys — Gipseys taught English Vagabonds — 
The Gipsey-Vagabond alliance — The Origin of 
Caot — Vulgar words from the Gipsey — Gipsey 
element in the English language — The poet Moore 
on the origin of Cant — Borrow on the Gipsey 
language — The inventor of Canting not hanged ... 7- — 15 

Old Cant words still used — Old Cant words with 
modern meaniDgs — The words " Rum" and 
" Queer" explained — Old Cant words entirely 
obsolete ... ... ... ... ... 16—19 

| The Oldest "Rogue's Dictionary" ... ... 20—26 

| j "Jaw-breakers," or hard words, used as Cant— Were 

\ j Highwaymen educated men ? — Vagabonds used 

Foreign words as Cant — The Lingua Franca, or 
Bastard Italian— Cant derived from Jews and 
^ Showmen — Classic words used as English Cant — 

Old English words used as Cant — Old English 
words not fashionable now — Our old Authors 
very vulgar persons — Was Shakespere a pugilist? 
— Old Dramatists used Cant words — Curious 
systems of Cant ... ... ... ... 26 — 85 



Hosted by GoOgk A 



/ 

r 

i 



x * v CONTENTS. 

ACCOUNT OF THE HIEROGLYPHICS USED BY 
VAGABONDS. 

Mendicant Freemasonry — Hieroglyphics of Vaga- 
bonds—Maps used by Beggars — Account of a 
Cadgers Map- Explanation of the Hieroglyphics 
—Did the Gipseys invent them? -The Murderer's 
Signal on the Gallows ... ... <<# 36—43 

THE HISTORY OF SLANG, OR THE VULGAR 
LANGUAGE OF FAST LIFE. 

Slang at Babylon and Nineveh— Old English Slang- 
Slang in the time of Cromwell ; and in the Court 
of Charles II. — Swift and Arbuthnot fond of 
Slang — The origin of " Callage"— « The Real 

Simon Pure" — Tom Brown and Ned Ward 

Did Dr. Johnson compile a Slang Dictionary? — 
John Bee's absurd etymology of Slang— The true 
origin of the term— Dt ived from the Gipseys — 
Burns and his" fat friend, Grose— Slang used by 
all classes, High and Low— Slang in Parliament, 
and amongst our friends — New words not so 
reprehensible as old words burdened with strange 
meanings — The poor Foreigner's perplexity — 
Long and windy Slang words— Vulgar cor- 
ruptions ... ... ... ... _ 44—56 

Fashionable Slang ... ... ... ... 53 

Parliamentary Slang ... ... ... ... 'Q 

Military and Dandy Slang ... ... ... 62 

University Slang .. ... ... ... #± 

Religious Slang ... ... ... ...' q$ 

Legal Slang, or Slang amongst the Lawyers ... 70 

Literary Slang, Punch on " Slang and Sanscrit " ... 71 

Theatrical Slakg, or Slang both before and behind 

the curtain ... ... ... ... 75 



f 4 

J 

l 

1 

I 



Hosted by G00gk 



I 



"I 



CONTENTS. SV 

Civio Slang ... ... ... ... ... 77 

Slang Terms for Money — Her Majesty's coin is 
insulted by one hundred and thirty distinct 
Slang terms — Old Slang terms for money — The 
classical origin of Slang money terms — The 
terms used by the Ancient Romans vulgarisms 
in the Nineteenth Century ... ... ... 78—82 

Shopkeepers' Slang ... ... ... ... 82 

Y^orkmen's Slang, or Slang in the workshop — Many 

Slang terms for money derived from operatives ... 83 

Slang Apologies for Oaths, or sham exclamations 

for passion and temper — Slang swearing ... 85 

Slang Terms for Drunkenness, and the graduated 

scale of fuddlement and intoxication ... ... 86 

DICTIONARY OF MODERN SLANG, CANT, 
AND VULGAR WORDS; many with their 
etymologies traced y together with illustrations, 
and references to authorities ... ... ... 89 — 249 



Some Account of the Back Slang, the secret lan- 
guage of Costermongers — The principle of the 
Bock Slang — Boys and girls soon acquire it — 
The Back Slang unknown to the Police — Coster- 
mongers' terms for money — Arithmetic amongst 
the Costermongers ... ... ... ... 251 — 255 

Glossary of the Back Slang ... ... ... 257 — 2G2 

Some Account of the Rhyming Llano, the secret 
language of Chaunters and Patterers — The origin 
of the Rhyming Slaug — Spoken principally by- 
Vagabond Poets, Patterers, and Cheap Jacks — 
Patterers "well up" in Street Slang — Curious 
Slang Letter from a Chaunter ... ... 253—268 

Glossary of the Rhyming Slang ... • ... 269 — 273 



Hosted by G00gk 



XVI CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

The Bibliography of Slang, Cant, and Vulgar 
Language, or a list of the books which have 
been consulted in the compilation of this work, 
comprising nearly every known treatise upon the 
subject 275—290 

List op Abbreviations ... ... ... 291 

Opinions of the Press upon the First Edition of this 

work— List of New Publications, &e. ... ... 293—300 



r 



Hosted by GoOgle 



Hosted by GoOgle 



r 



A CADGERS MAP OF A BEGGING DISTRICT. 



I 




EXPLANATION OF THE HIEROGLYPHICS. 
»/ NO GOOD ; too poor, and know too much. 

A 

f\t STOP,— if you have what they want, they will bny. They are 
« T* pretty "jly" (knowing). 

- 8 **- GO IN" THIS DIRECTION", it is better than the other road. 
-^ Nothing that way. 

J% BONE (good). Safe for a "cold tatur," if for nothing else. 
\J "■ Chuxe your patter" (don't talk much) here. 

^*f CO'OPEIVD (spoilt), by too many tramps calling there. 

HJ GAMMY (unfavourable), likely to have you taken up. Mind the 
dog. 

f7\ FL UMMUXED (dangerous), sure of a month in " quod " (prison). 

£D> RELIGIOUS, but tidy on the whole. 

W Sx page 87. 



Hosted by G00gk 



r~ 



THE HISTORY OF CANT, 



iECRET LANGUAGE OF VAGABONDS. 



Cant and Slang are universal and world-wide. 

Nearly every nation on the face of the globe, 

olite and barbarous, may be divided into two 

)ortions, the stationary and the wandering, the 

ivilised and the uncivilised, the respectable and 

;he scoundrel, — those who have fixed abodes and 

[avail themselves of the refinements of civilisation, 

land those who go from place to place picking up 

a precarious livelihood by petty sales, begging, or 

theft. This peculiarity is to be observed amongst 

the heathen tribes of the southern hemisphere, as 

well as the oldest and most refined countries of 

Europe. As Mayhew very pertinently remarks, 

; ' it would appear, that not only are all races 

B 



Hosted by G00gk 



r 



i 



i 



* BLACK AND COLOURED VAGABONDS. 

divisible into wanderers and settlers, but that each 
civilised or settled tribe lias generally some wan- 
dering horde intermingled with, and in a mea- 
sure preying upon it." In South Africa, the' 
naked and miserable Hottentots are pestered by" 
the still more abject Sonquas ; and it may be; 
some satisfaction for us to know that our oldj. 
enemies at the Cape, the Kafirs, are troubled witl| 
a tribe of rascals called Fingoes, — the former term, 
we are informed by travellers, signifying beggars*, 
and the latter wanderers and outcasts. In Soutlh 
America, and among the islands of the Pacini, 
matters are pretty much the same. Sleek and fa\t 
rascals, with not much inclination towards honest}!, 
fatten, or rather fasten, like body insects, upon 
other rascals, who would be equally sleek an el 
fat but for their vagabond dependents. LuckiK 
for respectable persons, however, vagabonds, botlj 
at home and abroad, show certain outward pecu| 
liarities which distinguish them from the great 
mass of lawful people off whom they feed and 
fatten. Personal observation, and a little research 
into books, enable me to mark these external! 
traits. The wandering races are remarkable for the 
development of the bones of the face, as the jaws, 
cheek-bones, &c, high crowned, stubborn-shaped 
heads, quick restless eyes,* and hands nervously 

* " Swarms of vagal) ouds, whose eyes were so sharp as Lynx.'' 
— Bulleiris Simples and Surgery, 15G2. 



V 



-tf 



1 



I 



( 



VAGABONDS ALL OVER EUROPE. * 

itching to be doing;* for their love of gambling, 
—staking their very existence upon a single cast ; 
for sensuality of all kinds; and for their use of a 
CANT language with which to conceal their designs 
and plunderings. 

The secret jargon, or rude speech, of the vagabonds 
who hang upon the Hottentots is termed cuze-cat. 
In Finland, the fellows who steal seal skins, pick 
the pockets of bear-skin overcoats, and talk Cant, 
are termed Lappes. In France, the secret language 
of highwaymen, housebreakers, and pickpockets is 
named Argot. The brigands and more romantic 
rascals of Spain, term their private tongue Ger- 
mania, or Robbers' Language. Roihwalsch, or Red 
Italian, is synonymous with Cant and thieves' talk 
in Germany. The vulgar dialect of Malta, and the 
Scala towns of the Levant— imported into this 
country and incorporated with English cant— is 
known as the Lingua Franca, or bastard Italian. 
And the crowds of lazy beggars that infest the 
, streets of Naples and Rome, and the brigands that 
' Albert Smith used to describe near Pompeii— stop- 
1 ping a railway train, and deliberately rifling the 
pockets and baggage of the passengers— their secret 
language is termed Gergo. In England, as we all 
know, it is called Cant— often improperly Slang. 
Most nations, then, may boast, or rather lament, 

* Mayhew has a curio as idea upon the habitual restlessness of 
the nomadic tribes, i.e., " Whether it be that in the mere act 
of wandering, there is a greater determination of blood to the 

b2 



i 



r 



i 



VAGABONDS UNIVERSAL. 

a vulgar tongue, formed principally from the 
national language, the hereditary property of 
thieves, tramps, and beggars— the pests of civilised 
communities. The formation of these secret tongues 
vary, of course, with the circumstances surrounding 
the speakers. A writer in Notes and Queries* has 
well remarked, that « the investigation of the origin 
and principles of Cant and Slang language open! a 
curious field of enquiry, replete with considerable 
interest to the philologist and the philosopher. It 
affords a remarkable instance of lingual contriv- 
ance, which, without the introduction of much 
arbitrary matter, has developed a system of com- 
municating ideas, having all the advantages of a 
foreign language." 

An inquiry into the etymology of foreign vulgar 
secret tongues, and their analogy with that spoken 
m England, would be curious and interesting in 
the extreme, but neither present space nor personal 
acquirements permit of the task, and therefore the 
writer confines himself to a short account of the 
origin of English Cant. 

The terms cant and canting were doubtless 
derived from chaunt or chaimting,— the " whining 
tone, or modulation of voice adopted by beggars, 
with intent to coax, wheedle, or cajole by pre- 

surface of the body, and consequently a less quantity sent to the 
brain." — London Labour, vol. i., p. 2. 

* Mr. Thos. Lawrence, who promised an Etymological, Cant, 
and Slang Dictionary. Where is the book ? 



, y Google 



I 

i 



ETYMOLOGY OF CANT. 



tensions of wretchedness."* Tor the origin of 
the other application of the word CANT, pulpit 
hypocrisy, we are indebted to a pleasant page 
in the Spectator (No. 147):— " Cant is by 
some people derived from one Andrew Cant, 
who, they say, was a Presbyterian minister in 
some illiterate part of Scotland, who by exercise 
and use had obtained the faculty, alias gift, of 
talking in the pulpit in such a dialect that 'tis 
said he was understood by none but his own 
congregation,— and not bv all of them. Since 
Master Cant's time it has been understood in 
a larger sense, and signifies all exclamations, 
winnings, unusual tones, and, in fine, all praying 
and preaching like the unlearned of the Presby- 
terians." This anecdote is curious, if it is not 
correct. It was the custom in Addison's time 
to have a fling at the blue Presbyterians, and the 
mention made by Whitelocke of Andrew Cant, 
a fanatical Scotch preacher, and the squib upon 
the same worthy, in Scotch Presbyterian Eloquence 
Displayed, may probably have started the whim- 
sical etymology. As far as we are concerned, 
however, in the present inquiry, CANT was derived 
from chaunt, a beggar's whine; CHAUNTING being 
the recognised term amongst beggars to this day 
for beo-oing orations and street winnings; and 
CHAUNTER, a street talker and tramp, the very 
term still used by strollers and patterers. The use 

* Richardson's Dictionary. 



Hosted by G00gk 



6 DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CANT AND SLANG. 

of tlie word CANT, amongst beggars, must certainly 
have commenced at a very early date, for we find 
u TO cante, to speake," in Harman's list of 
Rogues' Words in the year 1566; and Harrison 
about the same time,* in speaking of beggars and 
Gipseys, says, "they have devised a language among 
themselves which they name canting, but others 
Pedlars' Frenche." 

Now the word CANT in its old sense, and SLANGf 
in its modern application, although used by good 
writers and persons of education as synonym es, are 
in reality quite distinct and separate terms. Cant, 
apart from religious hypocrisy, refers to the old 
secret language, by allegory or distinct terms, of 
Gipseys, thieves, tramps, and beggars. Slang 
represents that evanescent, vulgar language, ever 
changing with fashion and taste, which has prin- 
cipally come into vogue during the last seventy or 
eighty years, spoken by persons in every grade of 
life, rich and poor, honest and dishonest. J Cant 

* Description of England, prefixed to HolinsheoVs Olironicle. 

f The word Slang, as will be seen in the chapter upon that 
subject, is purely a Gipsey term, although now-a-days it refers to 
low or vulgar language of any kind, — other than cant. Slang 
and Gibberish in the Gipsey language are synonymous ; but, as 
English adoptions, have meanings very different from that given 
to them in their original. 

X The vulgar toDgue consists of two parts : the first is the 
Cant Language; the second, those burlesque phrases, quaint 
allusions, and nick names for persons, things, and places, which, 
from long uninterrupted usage, are made classical by prescrip- 
tion. — Grose's Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue, 1st edition, 1785. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE GIPSEYS. i 

its old ; Slang is always modern and changing. To 
illustrate the difference: a thief in Cant language 
would term a horse a PR anger or a pr ad, — while 
in slang, a man of fashion would speak of it as a 

BIT OF BLOOD, or a SPANKER, or a NEAT TIT. 

A handkerchief, too, would be a billy, a fogle, 
or a KENT RAG, in the secret language of low 
characters, — whilst amongst vulgar persons, or 
those who aped their speech, it would be called a 
rag, a wipe, or a clout. Cant was formed for 
purposes of secrecy. Slang is indulged in from a 
desire to appear familiar with life, gaiety, town- 
humour, and with the transient nick names and 
street jokes of the day. Both Cant and Slang, I 
am aware, are often huddled together as synonymes, 
but they are distinct terms, and as such should be 
used. 

To the Gipseys, beggars and thieves are undoubt- 
indeb ted for their Cant language. The Gipseys 
I..:; ed in this country early in the reign of Henry 
ue Eighth. They were at first treated as conjurors 
ano magicians, — indeed they were hailed by the 
populace with as much applause as a company of 
English theatricals usually receive on arriving in a 
dis ;int colony. They came here with all their ojd 
Extern arts of palmistry, fortune-telling, doubling 
: no> ey by incantation and burial, — shreds of pagan 
iloitry; and they brought with them, also, the 
die honesty of the lower caste of Asiatics, and the 
vagabondism they had acquired since leaving their 



Hosted by G00gk 



8 GIPSEYS TAUGHT ENGLISH VAGABONDS. 

ancient dwelling places in the East, many centuries) 
before. They possessed, also, a language quite \ 
distinct from anything that had been heard in' 1 
England, and they claimed the title of Egyptians, 
and as such, when their thievish wandering pro- 
pensities became a public nuisance, were cautioned 
and proscribed in a royal proclamation by Henry 
VIII.* The Gipseys were not long in the country 
before they found native imitators. Vagabondism 
is peculiarly catching. The idle, the vagrant, and 
the criminal outcasts of society, caught an idea 
from the so called Egyptians — soon corrupted to 
Gipseys. They learned from them how to tramp 
sleep under hedges and trees, to tell fortunes, and 
find stolen property for a consideration — frequently,, 
as the saying runs, before it was lost. They also 
learned the value and application of a secret tongue,, 
indeed all the accompaniments of maunding and 
imposture, except thieving and begging, which 
were well known in this country long before the 
Gipseys paid it a visit, — perhaps the only negative 
o;ood that can be said in their favour. 

Harman y in the year 1566, wrote a singular, not 
to say droll book, entitled, A Caveat for commen 
Cvrsetors, vulgarley called Vagabones, newly aug- 
mented and inlavged, wherein the history and variou3 
descriptions of rogues and vagabonds are given, 
together with their canting tongue. This book, 

* " Outlandish people calling themselves Egyptians." 1530. 



>0 S ,C J 



THE GIPSEY- VAGABOND ALLIANCE. ^ 

the earliest of the kind, gives the singular fact 
that within a dozen years after the landing of 
the Gipseys, companies of English vagrants were 
formed, places of meeting appointed, districts for 
plunder and begging operations marked out, and 
rules agreed to for their common management. 
In some cases Gipseys joined the English gangs, in 
others English vagrants joined the Gipseys. The 
fellowship was found convenient and profitable, as 
both parties were aliens to the laws and customs of 
the country, living in a great measure in the open 
air, apart from the lawful public, and often meeting 
each other on the same bye-path, or in the same 
retired valley ;— but seldom intermarrying, and 
entirely adopting each other's habits. The common 
people, too, soon began to consider them as of one 
family, — all rogues, and from Egypt. The secret 
language spoken by the Gipseys, principally Hindoo 
and extremely barbarous to English ears, was 
Ibund incomprehensible and very difficult to learn. 
The Gipseys, also, found the same difficulty with 
the English language. A rude, rough, and most 
singular compromise was made, and a mixture of 
Gipsey, Old English, newly-coined words, and 
cribbings from any foreign, and therefore secret 
language, mixed and jumbled together, formed 
what has ever since been known as the canting 
language, or pedler's FRENCH ; or, during 
the past century, ST. Giles' greek. 



Hosted by GoOgk 



10 



THE ORIGIN OF CANT. 



Such was the origin of cant ; and in illustra- 
tion of its blending with the Gipsey or Cingari 
tongue, dusky and Oriental from the sunny plains 
of Central Asia, I am enabled to give the accom- 
panying list of Gipsey, and often Hindoo words, 
with, in many instances, their English adoptions. 



Gipsey. 
BAMBOOZLE, to perplex or 

mislead by hiding. Mod Gip. 
BOSH, rubbish, nonsense, offal. 

Gipsey and Persian. 
CHEESE, thing or article, 

" that's the cheese," or thing. 

Gipsey and Hindoo. 
CHIVE, the tongue. Gipsey. 

DADE, or Dadi, a father. Gip- 
sey. 

DISTARABIN, a prison. Gip- 
sey. 

GAD, or Gadsi, a wife. Gipsey. 



GIBBERISH, the language of 
Gipseys, synonymous with 
Slang. Gipsey. 

ISCHUR, Schur, or Chur, a 
thief. Gipjsey and Hindoo. 

LAB, a word. Gipsey. 

LOWE, or Lowr, money. Gip- 
sey and Wallachian. 



English. 
BAMBOOZLE, to delude, cheat, 

or make a fool of any one. 
BOSH, stupidity, foolishness. 

CHEESE, or cheesy, a first- 
rate or very good article. 

CHIVE, or chiyet, a shout, or 

loud-tongued. 
DADDY, nursery term for 

father.* 
STURABIrT, a prison. 

GAD, a female scold ; a woman 
who tramps over the country 
with a beggar or hawker. 

GIBBERISH, rapid and un- 
meaning speech. 

CUR, a mean or dishonest man. 

LOBS, words. 

LOWRE, money. Ancient Cant. 



* In those instances, indicated by a *, it is impossible to say 
whether or not we are indebted to the Gipseys for the terms. 
Dad, in Welsh, also signifies a father. Cur is stated to be a mere 
term of reproach, like " Dog," which in all European languages 
has been applied in an abusive sense. Objections may also be 
raised against Gad and Maund. 



Hosted by G00gk 



VULGAR WOEDS FROM THE GIPSEY. H 

Gipsey. English. 

MAMI, a grandmother. Gipsey. MAMMY, or Mamma, a mother, 

formerly sometimes used for 
grandmother. 
MANG, or Maung, to beg. MAUND, to beg. 

Gipsey and Hindoo. 
MORT, a free woman,— one for MORT, or Mott, a prostitute. 

common use amongst the 

male Gipseys, so appointed 

by Gipsey custom. Gipsey. 
MTJ, the mouth. Gipsey and MOO, or Mun, the mouth. 

Hindoo. 
MULL, to spoil or destroy. MULL, to spoil, or bungle. 

Gipsey. 
PAL, a brother. Gipsey. PAL, a partner, or relation. 

PANE", water. Gipsey. Hindoo, PARNEY, rain. 

PAWNEE. 

RIG, a performance. Gipsey. RIG, a frolic, or " spree." 
ROMANY, speech or language. ROMANY, the Gipsey lan- 

Spanish Gipsey. guage. 

ROME, or Romm, a man. Gip- RUM, a good man, or thing. 

sey and CopticJc. In the Robbers' language of 

Spain (partly Gipsey) bum 

signifies a harlot. 

ROMEE, a woman. Gipsey. RUMY, a good woman or girl. 

SLANG, the language spoken SLANG, low, vulgar, unautho- 

by Gipseys. Gipsey. rised language. 

TAWNO, little. Gipsey. TANNY, Teeny, little. 

TSCHIB, or Jibb, the tongue. JIBB, the tongue; Jabber,* 

Gipsey and Hindoo. quick-tongued, or fast talk. 

Here then we have the remarkable fact of seve- 
ral words of pure Gipsey and Asiatic origin going 
the round of Europe, passing into this country 
before the Reformation, and coming down to 

* Jabber, I am reminded, may be only another form of 
gabber, gab, very common in Old English, from the Anglo- 
Saxon, GiEBBAN. 



Hosted by G00gk 



12 VULGAR WORDS FROM THE GIPSEY. 

us through numerous generations purely in the 
mouths of the people. They have seldom been 
written or used in books, and simply as vulgarisms 
have they reached our time. Only a few are now 
cant, and some are household words. The word 
JOCKEY, as applied to a dealer or rider of horses, 
came from the Gipsey, and means in that language 
a whip. Our standard dictionaries give, of course, 
none but conjectural etymologies. Another word, 
bamboozle, has been a sore difficulty with lexi- 
cographers. It is not in the old dictionaries, 
although extensively used in familiar or popular 
language for the last two centuries ; in fact, the 
very word that Swift, Butler, L'Estrange, and 
Arbuthnot would pick out at once as a telling and 
most serviceable term. It is, as we have seen, from 
the Gipsey ; and here I must state that it was 
Boucher who first drew attention to the fact, 
although in his remarks on the dusky tongue, he 
has made a ridiculous mistake by concluding it to 
be identical with its offspring, cant. Other 
parallel instances, with but slight variations from 
the old Gipsey meanings, could be mentioned, but 
sufficient examples have been adduced to show 
that Marsden, the great Oriental scholar in the 
last century, when he declared before the Society 
of Antiquaries that the Cant of English thieves 
and beggars had nothing to do with the language 
spoken by the despised Gipseys, was in error. Had 



Hosted by G00gk 



GIPSEY ELEMENT IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. 13 

the Gipsey tongue been analysed and committed to 
writing three centuries ago, there is every proba- 
bility that many scores of words now in common 
use could be at once traced to its source. Instances 
continually occur now-a-days of street vulgarisms 
ascending to the drawing-rooms of respectable 
society. Why, then, may not the Gipsey-vagabond 
alliance three centuries ago have contributed its 
quota of common words to popular speech ? 

I feel confident there is a Gipsey element in the 
English language hitherto unrecognised; slender it 
may be, but not, therefore, unimportant. 

" Indeed," says Moore the poet, in a humorous 
little book, Tom Crib's Memorial to Congress, 1819, 
" the Gipsey language, with the exception of such 
terms as relate to their own peculiar customs, dif- 
fers but little from the regular Flash or Cant lan- 
guage." But this was magnifying the importance 
of the alliance. Moore knew nothing of the 
Gipsey tongue other than the few Cant words put 
into the mouths of the beggars, in Beaumont and 
Fletchers Comedy of the Beggar's Bush, and Ben 
Jonsorfs Masque of the Gipsey s Metamoiy hosed, — 
hence his confounding Cant with Gipsey speech, 
and appealing to the Glossary of Cant for so called 
" Gipsey" words at the end of the Life of Bamfylde 
Moore Car etc, to bear him out in his assertion. 
Still his remark bears much truth, and proof 
would have been found long ago if any scholar 



Hosted by G00gk 



14 BORROW ON THE GIPSEY LANGUAGE. 

had taken the trouble to examine the " barbarous 
jargon of Cant," and to have compared it with 
Gipsey speech. As George Borrow, in his Account 
of the Gipseys in Spain, eloquently concludes his 
second volume, speaking of the connection of the 
Gipseys with Europeans : — u Yet from this tempo- 
rary association were produced two results: Euro- 
pean fraud became sharpened by coming into con- 
tact with Asiatic craft ; whilst European tongues, 
by imperceptible degrees, became recruited with 
various words (some of them wonderfully expres- 
sive), many of which have long been stumbling- 
blocks to the philologist, who, whilst stigmatising 
them as words of mere vulgar invention, or of un- 
known origin, has been far from dreaming that a 
little more research or reflection would have proved 
their affinity to the Sclavonic, Persian, or Romaic, 
or perhaps to the mysterious object of his venera- 
tion, the Sanscrit, the sacred tongue of the palm- 
covered regions of Ind ; words originally introduced 
into Europe by objects too miserable to occupy for 
a moment his lettered attention, — the despised deni- 
zens of the tents of Roma." 

But the Gipseys, their speech, their character — 
bad enough as all the world testifies — their history 
and their religious belief, have been totally disre- 
garded, and their poor persons buffeted and jostled 
about until it is a wonder that any trace of origin 
or national speech exists in them. On the con- 



Hosted by Google 



THE INVENTOR OF CANTING NOT HANGED. 15 

tinent they received better attention at the hands 
of learned men. Their lansruao-e was taken 
down, their history traced, and their extraordinary 
customs and practice of living in the open air, 
and eating raw or putrid meat, explained. They 
ate reptiles and told fortunes, because they had 
learnt it through their forefathers centuries back 
in Hindostan, and they devoured carrion because 
the Hindoo proverb — " that which God kills is 
better than that killed by man"* — was still in 
their remembrance. Grellman, a learned German, 
was their principal historian, and to him we are 
almost entirely indebted for the little we know of 
their language, f 

Gipsey then started, and partially merged into 
CANT, and the old story told by Harrison and 
others, that the first inventor of canting was 
hanged for his pains, would seem to be a fable, for 
jargon as it is, it was, doubtless, of gradual forma- 
tion, like all other languages or systems of speech. 
The Gipsey s at the present day all know the old 
cant words, as well as their own tongue, — or 
rather what remains of it. As Borrow states, " the 
dialect of the English Gipseys is mixed with Eng- 
lish words. "J Those of the tribe who frequent fairs, 

* This very proverb was mentioned by a young Gipsey to 
Orabb, a few years ago. — Gipseys' Advocate, p. 14. 

+ I except, of course, the numerous writers who have followed 
Grellman, and based their researches upon his labours. 

J Gipseys of Spain, vol. i., p. 18. 



Hosted by G00gk 



16 OLD CANT WORDS STILL USED. 

and mix with. English tramps, readily learn the 
new words, as they are adopted by what Harman 
calls, " the fraternity of vagabonds." Indeed, the 
old cant is a common language to vagrants of all 
descriptions and origin scattered over the British 
Isles. 

Ancient English cant has considerably altered 
since the first dictionary was compiled by Harman, 
in 1566. A great many words are unknown in 
the present tramps' and thieves' vernacular. Some 
of them, however, bear still their old definitions, 
while others have adopted fresh meanings, — to 
escape detection, I suppose. " Abraham man" is 
yet seen in our modern sham Abraham, or plat 
THE OLD soldier, i.e., to feign sickness or dis- 
tress. " Autum" is still a church or chapel 
amongst Gipseys; and " beck," a constable, is our 
modern cant and slang beek, a policeman or ma- 
gistrate. " Bene," or bone, stands for good in 
Seven Dials, and the back streets of Westminster; 
and " bowse" is our modern booze, to drink or 
fuddle. A (t BOWSING ken" was the old cant 
term for a public house, and BOOZING KEN, in 
modern cant, has precisely the same meaning. 
"Bufe" was then the term for a dog, now it is 
buffer, — frequently applied to men. " Cassan" 
is both old and modern cant for cheese; the same 
may be said of "chattes" or chatts, the 
gallows. " Cofe," or COVE, is still the vulgar 



Hosted by G00gk 



OLD CANT WORDS WITH MODERN MEANINGS. 17 

synonyme for a man. " Drawers" was hose, or 
" liosen," — now applied to the lining for trousers. 
" dudes" was cant for clothes, we now say 
DUDDS. "Flag" is still a fourpenny piece; and 
"fylche" means to rob. "Ken" is a house, 
and " LICK" means to thrash; " prancer" is yet 
known amongst rogues as a horse; and " to PRIG," 
amongst high and low, is to steal. Three centuries 
ago, if one beggar said anything disagreeable to 
another, the person annoyed would say " STOW 
YOU," or hold your peace; low people now say 
stow it, equivalent to "be quiet." "Trine" is 
still to hang; " WYN" yet stands for a penny. 
And many other words, as will be seen in the 
glossary, still retain their ancient meaning. 

As specimens of those words which have altered 
their original cant signification, I may instance 
" CHETE," now written CHEAT. Chete was in 
ancient cant what chop is in the Canton-Chinese, 
— an almost inseparable adjunct. Everything 
was termed a chete, and qualified by a sub- 
stantive-adjective, which showed what kind of a 
chete was meant ; for instance, "crashing 
chetes" were teeth; a " moffling chete," a 
napkin; a "grunting chete," a pig, &c. &c. 
Cheat now-a-days means to defraud or swindle, 
and lexicographers have tortured etymology for an 
original — but without success. Escheats and es~ 
cheatours have been named, but with great doubts; 

c 



Hosted by GoOgle 



18 THE WORDS « RUM" AND " QUEER" EXPLAINED. 

indeed, Stevens, the learned commentator on 
Sliakespere, acknowledged that he " did not recol- 
lect to have met with the word cheat in our ancient 
writers."* Cheat, to defraud, then, is no other 
than an old Cant term, somewhat altered in its 
meaning^ and as such it should be described in 
the next Etymological Dictionary. Another in- 
stance of a change in the meaning of the old Cant, 
but the retention of the word is seen in " cly," 
formerly to take or steal, now a pocket;— remem- 
bering a certain class of low characters, a curious 
connection between the two meanings will be dis- 
covered. " Make" was a halfpenny, we now say 
MAG, — make being modern Cant for appropriat- 
ing,—" convey the wise it call." " Milling" 
stood for stealing, it is now a pugilistic term for 
fighting or beating. "Nab" was a head,— low 
people now say nob, the former meaning, in 
modern Cant, to steal or seize. " Pek " was 
meat, — we still say PECKISH, when hungry. 
■" Prygges, dronken Tinkers or beastly people" as 
old Harman wrote, would scarcely be understood 
now; a prig, in the 19th century, is a pick- 
pocket or thief. " Quier," or queer, like cheat, 
was a very common prefix, and meant bad or 

* Shakes. Hen. IV., part 2, act ii, scene 4. 

f It is easy to see how cheat became synonymous with " fraud," 
when we remember that it was one of the most common words 
of the greatest class of cheats in the country. 



Hosted by G00gk 



OLD CANT WORDS ENTIRELY OBSOLETE. 19 

wicked, — it now means odd, curious, or strange ; 
but to the ancient cant we are indebted for 
the word, which etymologists should remember.* 
(i Rome," or rum, formerly meant good, or of the 
first quality, and was extensively used like cheat 
and queer, — indeed as an adjective it was the oppo- 
site of the latter. Rum now means curious, and is 
synonymous with queer, thus, — a a rummy old 
fellow," or a " queer old man." Here again we 
see the origin of an every day word, scouted by 
lexicographers and snubbed by respectable persons, 
but still a word of frequent and popular use. 
" Yannam" meant bread, p annum is the word 
now. Other instances could be pointed out, but 
they will be observed in the dictionary. 

Several words are entirely obsolete. " Alybbeg" 
no longer means a bed, nor " askew" a cup. 
" BooGET,"f now-a-days, would not be understood 
for a basket; neither would " gan" pass current 
for mouth. "Fullams" was the old cant term for 
false or loaded dice, and although used by Shake- 

* I am reminded by an eminent philologist that the origin of 
queer is seen in the German, quer, crooked, — bence "odd." 
I agree with this etymology, but still have reason to believe that 
the word was first used in this country in a cant sense. Is it 
mentioned any where as a respectable term before 1500 ? If 
not, it had a vulgar or cant introduction into this couutry. 

f Booget properly signifies a leathern wallet, and is probably 
derived from the low Latin, bulga. A tinker's budget is from 
the same source. 

c 2 



Hosted by GoOgk 



20 



THE OLDEST " EOGUES' DICTIONARY." 



spere in this sense, is now unknown and obsolete. 
Indeed, as Tom Moore somewhere remarks, the 
present Greeks of St. Giles, themselves, would be 
thoroughly puzzled by many of the ancient canting- 
songs, — taking for example, the first verse of an 
old favourite : 

Bing out, bien Morts, and toure and toure, 

Bing out, bien Morts, and toure; 
For all your duds are bing'd a wast; 

The bien cove hath the loure.* 

But I think I cannot do better than present to 
the reader at once an entire copy of the first 
Canting Dictionary ever compiled. As before 
mentioned, it was the work of one Thos. Harman, 
a gentleman who lived in the days of Queen 
Elizabeth. Some writers have remarked that 
Deckerf was the first to compile a Dictionary of 
the vagabonds' tongue; whilst Borrow, J and Moore, 
the poet, stated that Richard Head performed that 

* Which, literally translated, means : 

Go out, good girls, and look and see, 

Go out, good girls, and see ; 
For all your clothes are carried away, 

And the good man has the money. 

f Who wrote about the year 1610. 

+ Gipseys of Spain, vol. i., p. 18. Borrow further commits 
himself by remarking that "Head's Vocabulary has always 
been accepted as the speech of the English Gipseys." Nothing 
of the kind. Head professed to have lived with the Gipseys, but 
in reality niched his words from Decker and JBrome. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE OLDEST " ROGUES' DICTIONARY." 21 

service in his Life of an English Rogue, published 
in the year 1680. All these statements are equally 
incorrect, for the first attempt was made more than 
a century before the latter work was issued. The 
quaint spelling and old-fashioned phraseology are 
preserved, and the reader will quickly detect many 
vulgar street words, old acquaintances, dressed in 
antique garb * 

ABRA HAM-MEN, be those that fayn themselves to have beene 
mad, and have bene kept either in Bethelem, or in some 
other pryson a good time. 

ALYBBEG, zbedde, 

ASKEW, a cuppe. 

A UTEM, a churche. 

A UTEM MORTES, married wemen as chaste as a cowe. 

BAUDYE BASKETS, bee women who goe with baskets and 
capcases on their armes, wherein they have laces, pinoes, 
nedles, whyte inkel, and round sylke gyrdels of all colours, 

BECK [Beek], a constable. 

BELLY-CffETE, apron. 

BENE, good. Benar, better, 

BENSHIP, very good. 

BLETINQ CBETE, a calfe or sheepe. 

BOOGET, a travelling tinker's baskete. 

BORDE, a shilling. 

BOUNG, a purse [Friesic, pong], 

BOWSE, drink. 

BOWSING-KEN, a alehouse. 

BUFE [buffer, a man], a dogge. 

BYNGE A WASTE, go you hence. 

CACKLING-CBETE, a coke [cock], or capon. 

CASSAN [cassam], cheese. 

CASTERS, acloake. 

* The modem meanings of a few of the old canfc words are 
given in brackets. 



y Google 



22 THE OLDEST '* ROGUES' DICTIONARY," 

CATETH, "the vpright Cofe cateth to the Roge" [probably a 

shortening or misprint of CantetK\. 
CHATTES, the gallowes. 

CRETE [see what has been previously said about this word], 
QLY [a pocket], to take, receive, or have. 
COFE [cove], a person. 
COMMISSION [mish], a shirt. 

COUNTERFET CRANK E, these that do counterfet the Cranke 
be yong knaves and yonge harlots, that deeply dissemble 
the falling sicknes. 
CRANKE [cranky, foolish], falling evil [or wasting sickness]. 
CRASHING-CHETES, teeth. 
CUFFEN, a manne [a cidf in Northumberland and Scotland 

signifies a lout or awkward fellow], 
DARKEMANS, the night. 
DELL, a yonge wench, 
DEWSE-A-VYLE t ths countrey. 
DOCK, to deflower, 
DOXES, harlots. 
DRA WERS 7 hosen. 
DUDES [or dudds], clothes. 
F AMBLES, handes. 

FAMBLING-CHETE, a ring on one's hand. 
FLAGG, a groat. 

FRATER, a beggar wyth a false paper. 

FRESHEWATER-MARINERS, these kind of caterpillers 
counterfet great losses on the sea:— their shippes were 
drowned in the playne of Salisbury. 
FYLCHE, to robbe : Fylch-man [a robber]. 

GA GE } a quart pot. 

GAN,s, mouth. 

GENTRY COFE, a noble or gentle man. 

GENTRY-COFES-KEN, a noble or gentle man's house. 

GENTRY MORT, a noble or gentle woman. 

GERRY, excrement. 

GLASYERS, eyes. 

GLYMMAR, fyer, 

GRANNAM, come. 



Hosted by G00gle ' 



THE OLDEST "ROGUES' DICTIONARY." 23 

GRUNTING- CBETE, a pygge. 

GYB, a writing. 

GYGER [jigger], a dore. 

HEARING- CHETES, eares. 

JARKE, a seale. 

JARKEMAN, one who make writings and set seales for [coun- 
terfeit] licences and pasports. 

KEN, a house. 

KYNCEEN CO [or cove], a young boye trained up like a 
" Kynchmg Ilorte." [From the German diminutive Kind- 
schen.] 

KYNCHING MORTE, is a little gyrle, carried at their mothers' 
backe in a slate, or sheete, who brings them up sauagely. 

LAG, water. 

LAG OF DUDES, a bucke [or basket] of clothes. 

LAGE, to washe. 

LAP, butter, mylke, or whey. 

LIGHTMANS, the day. 

LOWING-CHETE, a cowe. 

LOW RE, money. 

LUBBARES, — " sturdy Lub b ares," country bumpkins, or men 
of a low degree. 

LYB-BEG,&hed. 

LYOKE [lick], to beate. 

L YP, to lie down. 

LYPKEN, a house to lye in. 

MAKE [mag], a halfpenny. 

MARGERI PRATER, a hen. 

MILLING, to steale [by sending a child, in at the window]. 

MOFLING-CEETE, a napkin. 

MORTES [motts], harlots. 

M YLL, to robbe. 

MYNT, gold. 

NAB [nob], a heade. 

NABCHET, a hat or cap. 

NASE, dronken. 

NOSEGENT, a nunne. 



Hosted by G00gk 



24 THE OLDEST "ROGUES' DICTIONARY." 

PALLY ARE, a borne beggar [who counterfeits sickness, or in- 
curable sores. They are mostly Welshmen, Harman says]. 

PA RAM, my Ike. 

PATRICO, a priest. 

PATRICOS K1NCHEN, a pygge [a satirical hit at the church, 
Patrico meaning a parson or priest, and Kinchen his little 
boy or girl]. 

PEK [peckish], meat. 

POPPELARS,.yormge. 

PRAT, abuttocke. 

PRATLING-CHETE, a toung. 

PRA UNCER, a horse. 

PRIGGER OF PRA UNCERS, be horse stealers, for to prigge 
signifieth in their language to steale, and a Prauncer is a 
horse, so being put together, the matter was playn. [Thus 
writes old Thomas Harman, who concludes his description 
of this order of "pryggers," by very quietly saying, "I 
had the best gelding stolen out of my pasture, that I had 
amongst others, whyle this book was first a printing."] 

PRYGGES, dronken Tinkers, or beastly people. 

QUACKING-CEETE, a drake or duck. 

QUAROMES, a body. 

QUIER [queer], badde [see what has been previously said about 
this word]. 

QUYER GRAMP-RINGES, boltes or fetters. 

QUIER CUFF1N, the iustice of peace. 

QUYER-KYN, a pryson house. 

RED SBANKE, a drake or ducke. 

ROGER, a goose. 

ROME, goode [now curious, noted, or remarkable in any way. 
Rum is the modern orthography]. 

ROME BOUSE [rum booze] wyne. 

ROME MORT, the Queene [Elizabeth]. 

ROME VYZE [or Eum-ville], London. 

RUFF PECK, baken [short bread, common in old times at farm 
houses]. 

RUFFMANS, the woods or bushes. 

SALOMON, a alter or masse. 

SKYPPER, a barne. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE OLDEST " ROGUES' DICTIONARY." 25 

SLATE, a sheete or shetes. 

SMELLING CRETE, a Dose. 

SMELLING CRETE, a garden or orchard. 

SNOWT FA YRE [said of a woman who has a pretty face or is 
comely], 

STALL [to initiate a beggar or rogue into the rights and privi- 
leges of the canting order. Harman relates, that when an 
upright-man, or initiated, first-class rogue, "mete any beggar, 
whether he be sturdy or impotent, he will demand of him 
whether ever he was ' stalled to the roge' or no. If he say he 
was, he will know of whom, and his name yt stalled him. 
And if he be not learnedly able to show him the whole 
circumstance thereof, he will spoyle him of his money, 
either of his best garment, if it be worth any money, and 
haue him to the bowsing ken : which is, to some typpling 
house next adjoyninge, and layth there to gage the best 
thing that he hath for twenty pence or two shillings : this 
man obeyeth for feare of beatinge. Then dooth this upright 
man call for a gage of bowse, which is a quarte potte of 
drink, and pmvres the same vpon his peld pate, adding 
these words,— I, G. P. do stall e the, W. T. to the Eoge, and 
that from henceforth it shall be lawfull for thee to cant, 
that is to aske or begge for thi liuiug in al places." Some- 
thing like this treatment is the popular idea of Free- 
masonry, and what schoolboys term " freeing." 

STAMPES, legges. 

STAMPERS, shoes. 

STA TILING KEN, a house that will receyue stollen wares. 

STA WLINGE-KENS, tippling houses. 

STOW YOU [stow it], hold your peace. 

STRIKE, to steale. 

STROMMELL, strawe. 

SWADDER, or Pedler [a man who hawks goods]. 

TRE RIGR PAD, the highway. 

TRE RUFFIAN CLY TREE, the devil take thee. 

TOGEMANS [togg], a cloake. 

TOGMAN, a coate. 

TO BOWSE, to drmke. 

TO CANTE, to speake. 

TO CLY TRE GERKE, to be whipped. 

TO COUCR A ROGSREAD, to lie down and slepe. 



Hosted by G00gk 



26 "JAW-BREAKERS," OR HARD WORDS, USED IN CANT. 

TO CUTTE, to say [cut it is modern slang for " be quiet "]. 
TO OUT BENE WBYDDES, to speake or give good words. 
TO CUTTE QUYER WBYDDES, to giue euil words or euil 
language. 

TO CUT BENLE, to speak gentle. 

TO DUE YE GYGER [jigger], to open the dore. 

TO FYLCHE, to robbe. 

TO HEUE A BOUGH, to robbe or rifle aboweth [booth]. 

TO MA UNDE, to aske or require. 

TO MILL A KEN, to robbe a house. 

TO NYGLE [coition]. 

TO NYP A BOUNG [nip, to steal], to cut a purse. 

TO SKOWER THE CRAMPRINGES, to weare boltes or 
fetters. 

TO STALL, to make or ordain. 

TO THE RUFFIAN, to the Devil. 

TO TOWRE, to see. 

TRYNING [trine], hanging. 

TYB OF THE BUTERY, a goose. 

WALKING MORTE, wornene [who pass for widows]. 

WAP PING [coition]. 

WHYDDES, wordes. 

WYN, a penny. 

YANNAM, bread. 

Turning our attention more to the Cant of 
modern times, in connection with the old, we find 
that words have been drawn into the thieves' 
vocabulary from every conceivable source. Hard 
or infrequent words, vulgarly termed crack-jaio^ or 
jaw-breakers, were very often used and considered 
as cant terms. And here it should be mentioned 
that at the present day the most inconsistent and 
far-fetched terms are often used for secret purposes, 
when they are known to be caviare to the million. 



Hosted by G00gk 



WERE HIGHWAYMEN EDUCATED MEN 1 27 

It is really laughable to know that such words as 
incongruous, insipid, interloper, intriguing, indeco- 
rum, forestall equip, hush, grapple, &c. &c, were 
current Cant words a century and a half ago; but 
such was the case, as any one may see in the 
Dictionary of Canting Words, at the end of Bac- 
chus and Venus. * 1737. They are inserted not as 
jokes or squibs, but as selections from the veritable 
pocket dictionaries of the Jack Sheppards and 
Dick Turpins of the day. If they were safely used 
as unknown and cabalistic terms amongst the 
commonalty, the fact would form a very curious 
illustration of the ignorance of our poor ancestors. 
One piece of information is conveyed to us, i.e., 
that the "Knights" or u Gentlemen of the road," 
using these polite words in those days of highway- 
men, were really well educated men, — which 
heretofore has always been a hard point of belief, 
notwithstanding old novels and operas. 

Amongst those Cant words which have either 
altered their meaning, or have become extinct, I 
may cite lady, formerly the Cant for " a very 
crooked, deformed, and ill-shapen woman ;"f and 

* This is a curious volume, and is worth from one to two 
guineas. The Canting Dictionary was afterwards reprinted, 
word for word, with the title of The Scoundrel's Dictionary, in 
1751. It was originally published, without date, about the year 
1710 by B. E., under the title of a Dictionary of the Canting 
Crew. 

f Bacchus and Venus, 1737. 



Hosted by G00gk 



28 VAGABONDS USED FOREIGN WORDS AS CANT. 

HARMAN, " a pair of stocks, or a constable." 
The former is a pleasant piece of satire, whilst the 
latter indicates a singular method of revenge. 
Harman was the first author who specially wrote 
against English vagabonds, and for his trouble his 
name became synonymous with a pair of stocks, 
and a policeman of the olden time. 

Apart from the Gipsey element, we find that 
Cant abounds in terms from foreign languages, 

O DO 7 

and that it exhibits the growth of most recognised 
and completely formed tongues, — the gathering of 
words from foreign sources. In the reign of Eliza- 
beth and of King James I., several Dutch, Spanish, 
and Flemish words were introduced by soldiers 
who had served in the Low Countries, and sailors 
who had returned from the Spanish Main, who 
like " mine ancient Pistol" were fond of garnishing 
their speech with outlandish phrases. Many of 
these were soon picked up and adopted by vagabonds 
and tramps in their Cant language. The Anglo- 
Norman and the Anglo-Saxon, the Scotch, the 
French, the Italian, and even the classic lan- 
guages of ancient Italy and Greece, have contri- 
buted to its list of words, — besides the various 
provincial dialects of England. Indeed, as May- 
hew remarks, English Cant seems to be formed on 
the same basis as the Argot of the French, and 
the Roth-Sjjrcec of the Germans, — partly meta- 
phorical, and partly by the introduction of such 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE LINGUA FRANCA, OR BASTARD ITALIAN. 29 

corrupted foreign terms as are likely to be un- 
known to the society amid which the Cant speakers 
exist. Argot is the London thieves' word for their 
secret language, — it is, of course, from the French, 
but that matters not so long as it is incomprehen- 
sible to the police and the mob. Booze, or BOUSE, 
I am reminded by a friendly correspondent, comes 
from the Dutch, buysen. Domine, a parson, is 
from the Latin; and don, a clever fellow, has been 
filched from the Spanish. Donna and eeeles, 
a woman and children, is from the Lingua Franca, 
or bastard Italian, although it sounds like an odd 
mixture of Spanish and French; whilst dudds, the 
vulgar term for clothes, may have been pilfered 
either from the Gaelic or the Dutch. Feele, a 
daughter, from the French; and frow, a girl or 
wife, from the German — are common tramps' terms. 
So are GENT, silver, from the French, J -r gent ; 
and VIAL, a country town, also from the French. 
Horrid-horn, a fool, is believed to be from the 
Erse; and gloak, a man, from the Scotch. As 
stated before, the Dictionary will supply numerous 
other instances. 

There is one source, however, of secret street 
terms, which, in the first edition of this work, was 
entirely overlooked, — indeed, it was unknown to 
the editor until pointed out by a friendly corre- 
spondent, — the Lingua Franca, or bastard Italian, 
spoken at Genoa, Trieste, Malta, Constantinople, 



Hosted by GoOgk 



30 CANT DERIVED FROM JEWS AND SHOWMEN. 

Smyrna, Alexandria, and all Mediterranean sea- 
port towns. The ingredients of this imported Cant 
are many. Its foundation is Italian, with a mixture 
of modern Greek, German (from the Austrian ports), 
Spanish, Turkish, and French. It has been intro- 
duced to the notice of the London wandering tribes 
by the sailors, foreign and English, who trade to 
and from the Mediterranean seaports, by the 
swarms of organ players from all parts of Italy, 
and by the makers of images from Rome and 
Florence, — all of whom, in dense thoroughfares, 
mingle with our lower orders. It would occupy 
too much space here to give a list of these words. 
They are all noted in the Dictionary. 

" There are several Hebrew terms in our Cant 
language, obtained, it would appear, from the 
intercourse of the thieves with the Jew fences 
(receivers of stolen goods) ; many of the Cant 
terms, again, are Sanscrit, got from the Gipseys; 
many Latin, got by the beggars from the Catholic 
prayers before the Reformation; and many, again, 
Italian, got from the wandering musicians and 
others; indeed the showmen have but lately intro- 
duced a number of Italian phrases into their Cant 
language."'* The Hindostanee also contributes 
several words, and these have been introduced by 
the Lascar sailors, who come over here in the East 

* Mayhew's London Labour and London Poor, vol. iii. 
No. 43, Oct. 4th, 1851. 



Hosted by G00gk 



OLD ENGLISH WORDS USED AS CANT. 31 

Indiamen, and lodge during their stay in the low 
tramps' lodging houses at the East end of London. 
Speaking of the learned tongues, I may mention 
that, precarious and abandoned as the vagabond's 
existence is, many persons of classical or refined 
education have from time to time joined the ranks, 
— occasionally from inclination, as in the popular 
instance of Bamfylde Moore Carew, but generally 
through indiscretion, and loss of character/* This 
will in some measure account for numerous classical 
and learned words figuring as Cant terms in the 
vulgar Dictionary. 

In the early part of the last century, when high- 
waymen were by all accounts so plentiful, a great 
many new words were added to the canting voca- 
bulary, whilst several old terms fell into disuse, 
Cant, for instance, as applied to thieves' talk, was 
supplanted by the word flash. 

A singular feature, however, in vulgar language, 
is the retention and the revival of sterling old 
English words, long since laid up in ancient manu- 
scripts, or the subject of dispute among learned 
antiquaries. Disraeli somewhere says, " the purest 
source of neology is in the revival of old words*' — 
"Words that wise Bacon or brave Rawleigh spake/' 

* Mayhew (vol. i., p. 217), speaks of a low lodging-house "in 
which there were at one time five -university men, three 6i>- 
geons, and several sorts of broken down clerks." But old Bar- 
man's saying, that " a wylde Roge is he that is borne a roge/' will 
perhaps explain this seeming anomaly. 



Hosted by G00gk 



32 OLD ENGLISH WORDS NOT FASHIONABLE NOW. 

and Dr. Latham honours our subject by remarking 
that " the thieves of London are the conservators 
of Anglo-Saxonisms." Mayhew, too, in his in- 
teresting work, London Labour and London Poor, 
admits that many Cant and Slang phrases are 
merely old English terms, which have become ob- 
solete through the caprices of fashion." And the 
reader who looks into the Dictionary of the vaga- 
bonds' lingo, will see at a glance that these gentle- 
men were quite correct, and that we are compelled . 
to acknowledge the singular truth that a great 
many old words, once respectable, and in the 
months of kings and fine ladies, are now only so 
r-uViiy signals for shrugs and shudders amongst 
exceedingly polite people. A Belgravian gentleman 
who nad lost his watch or his pocket-handkerchief, 
W'.<uld scarcely remark to his mamma that it had 
been boned — yet bone, in old times, meant to 
s eal amongst high and low. And a young lady 
living in the precincts of dingy, but aristocratic 
May-Fair, although enraptured with a Jenny Lind 
or a Xiistori, would hardly think of turning back in 
the box to inform papa that she, Ristori or Lind, 
41 nuie no BONES of it " — yet the phrase was most 
■ res friable and well-to-do, before it met with a 
cKau;e of circumstances. "A crack article," 
hoover first-rate, would, as far as speech is con- 
cerned, have greatly displeased Dr. Johnson and 
Mr. Walker — yet both CRACK, in the sense of excel- 



Hosted by G00gk 



OUR OLD AUTHORS VERY VULGAR PERSONS. 33 

lent, and CRACK UP, to boast or praise, were not 
considered vulgarisms in the time of Henry VIII. 
Dodge, a cunning trick, is from the Anglo-Saxon; 
and ancient nobles used to " get each other's 
dander up " before appealing to their swords,— 
quite flabergasting (also a respectable old word) 
the half score of lookers-on with the thumps and 
cuts of their heavy weapons. Gall avanting , 
waiting upon the ladies, was as polite in expression 
as in action; whilst a clergyman at Paule's Crosse, 
thought nothing of bidding a noisy hearer to " hold 
his gab," or " shut up his gob." Gadding, roam- 
ing about in an idle and trapesing manner, was 
used in an old translation of the Bible; and "to do 
anything gingerly " was to do it with great care. 
Persons of modern tastes will be shocked to know 
that the great Lord Bacon spfoke of the lower part 
of a man's face as his GILLS. 

Shakespere, or as the French say, " the divine 
William/' also used many words which are now 
counted as dreadfully vulgar. " Clean gone," in 
the sense of out of sight, or entirely away ; "you 
took me all A-MORT," or confounded me ; "it won't 
fadge," or suit, are phrases taken at random 
from the great dramatist's works. A London 
costermonger, or inhabitant of the streets, in- 
stead of saying u I'll make him yield," or <f give 
in," in a fight or contest, would say, " I'll make 
him buckle under." Shakespere, in his Henry the 

D 



Hosted by G00gk 



34 SHAKESPEEE A PUGILIST'? 

Fourth (Part 2, Acti., Scene 1) lias the word, and 
Mr. Halliwell, one of the greatest and most indus- 
trious of living antiquaries, informs us, that " the 
commentators do not supply another example." 
How strange, then, that the Bard of Avon, and 
the Cockney costermongers, should be joint partners 
and sole proprietors of the vulgarism. If Shake- 
spere was not a pugilist, he certainly anticipated 
the terms of the prize ring — or they were respect- 
able words before the prize ring was thought of — 
for he has pay, to beat or thrash, and pepper, 
with a similar meaning; also FANCY, in the sense 
of pets and favourites, — pugilists are often termed 
the fancy. The cant word prig, from the Saxon, 
priccan, to filch, is also Shakesperian ; so indeed 
is PIECE, a contemptuous term for a young woman. 
Shakespere was not *the only vulgar dramatist of 
his time. Ben Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher, 
Brome, and other play-writers, occasionally put 
cant words into the mouths of their low characters, 
or employed old words which have since degene- 
rated into vulgarisms. Crusty, poor tempered ; 
11 two of a kidney," two of a sort ; LARK, a piece 
of fun ; LUG, to pull ; BUNG, to give or pass ; 
PICKLE, a sad plight ; FRUMP, to mock, are a few 
specimens casually picked from the works of the 
old histrionic writers. 

One old English mode of canting, simple and 
effective when familiarised by practice, was the 



Hosted by G00gk 



CURIOUS SYSTEMS OF CANT. 60 

inserting a consonant betwixt each syllable ; thus, 
taking #, " How do you do?" would be " Houg 
dog youg dog ? The name very properly given to 
this disagreeable nonsense, we are informed by 
Grose, was Gibberish. 

Another Cant has recently been attempted by 
transposing the initial letters of words, so that a 
mutton chop becomes a cutton wop, a pint of stout 
a stint of j90ut ; but it is satisfactory to know that 
it has gained no ground. This is called Marrow- 
skying, or Medical Greek, from its use by medical 
students at the hospitals. Albert Smith terms it 
the Goioer-street Dialect. 

The Language of Ziph, I may add, is another 
rude mode of disguising English, in use among 
the students at Winchester College. 



Hosted by G00gk 



ACCOUNT 



HIEROGLYPHICS USED BY VAGABONDS. 



One of the most singular chapters in a History of 
Vagabondism would certainly be an account of the 
Hieroglyphic signs used by tramps and thieves. 
The reader may be startled to know that, in addi- 
tion to a secret language, the wandering tribes of 
this country have private marks and symbolic signs 
with which to score their successes, failures, and 
advice to succeeding beggars; in fact, that the 
country is really dotted over with beggars' finger 
posts and guide stones. The assertion, however 
strange it may appear, is no fiction. The subject 
was not long since brought under the attention of 
the Government by Mr. Rawlinson.* " There is," 
he says in his report, " a sort of blackguards 5 litera- 
ture, and the initiated understand each other by 

* Mr, Rawlinson's Report to the General Board of Health, 
Parish of Havant, Hampshire. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MENDICANT FREEMASONRY. 37 

slang [cant] terms, by pantomimic signs, and by 
hieroglyphics. The vagranfs mark may be seen 
in Havant, on corners of streets, on door posts, and 
on house steps. Simple as these chalk lines appear, 
they inform the succeeding vagrants of all they 
require to know ; and a few white scratches may 
say, i be importunate,' or 'pass on.' " 

Another very curious account was taken from a 
provincial newspaper, published in 1849, and for- 
warded to Notes and Queries* under the head of 
Mendicant Freemasonry. " Persons/' re- 
marks the writer, " indiscreet enough to open their 
purses to the relief of the beggar tribe, would do 
well to take a readily learned lesson as to the folly 
of that misguided benevolence which encourages 
and perpetuates vagabondism. Every door or 
passage is pregnant with instruction as to the error 
committed by the patron of beggars, as the beggar- 
marks show that a system of freemasonry is fol- 
lowed, by which a beggar knows whether it will 
be worth his while to call into a passage or knock 
at a door. Let any one examine the entrances to 
the passages in any town, and there he will find 
chalk marks, unintelligible to him, but significant 
enough to beggars. If a thousand towns are 
examined, the same marks will be found at. every 
passage entrance. The passage mark is a cypher 
with a twisted tail: in some cases the tail projects 

* Vol. v., p. 210. 



Hosted by G00gk 



38 HIEROGLYPHICS OF VAGABONDS. 

into the passage, in others outwardly ; thus seeming 
to indicate whether the houses down the passage 
are worth calling at or not. Almost every door 
has its marks: these are varied. In some cases 
there is a cross on the brick work, in others a 
cypher: the figures 1, 2, 3 ; are also used. Every 
person may for himself test the accuracy of these 
statements by the examination of the brick work 
near his own doorway — thus demonstrating that 
mendicity is a regular trade, carried out upon a 
system calculated to save time, and realise the 
largest profits." These remarks refer mainly to 
provincial towns, London being looked upon as the 
tramps' home, and therefore too fly, or expe- 
rienced, to be duped by such means. 

The only other notice of the hieroglyphics of 
vagabonds that I have met with, is in May hew } s 
London Labour and London Poor* Mayhew 
obtained his information from two tramps, who 
stated that hawkers employ these signs as well as 
beggars. One tramp thus described the method of 
WORKlNGf a small town. " Two hawkers (PALSf) 
go together, but separate when they enter a village, 
one taking one side of the road, and selling dif- 
ferent things; and so as to inform each other as to 
the character of the people at whose houses they 
call, they chalk certain marks on their door posts." 
Another informant stated that " if a PATTERERf 
* Vol. i., pages 218 and 247.] [f See Dictionary. 



Hosted by G00gk 



ACCOUNT OF A CADGER'S MAP. 39 

has been crabbed (that is, offended) at any of the 
CRIBS (houses), he mostly chalks a signal at or 
near the door? 

Another use is also made of these hieroglyphics. 
Charts of successful begging neighbourhoods are 
rudely drawn, and symbolical signs attached to each 
house to show whether benevolent or adverse.* "In 
many cases there is over the kitchen mantel-piece" 
of a tramps' lodging-house " a map of the district, 
dotted here and there with memorandums of failure 
or success."! A correct facsimile of one of these 
singular maps has been placed as a frontispiece. It 

* Sometimes, as appears from the following, the names of 
persons and bouses are written instead. "In almost everyone 
of the padding-kens, or low lodging-houses in the country, there 
is a list of walks pasted up over the kitchen mantel piece. Now 

at St. Albans, for instance, at the , and at other places, 

there is a paper stuck up in each of the kitchens. This paper 
is headed "Walks out of this Town," and underneath it is 
set down the names of the villages in the neighbourhood at 
which a beggar may call when out on his walk, and they are so 
arranged as to allow the cadger to make a round of about six: 
miles each day, and return the same night. In many of these 
papers there are sometimes twenty walks set down. No villages 
that are in any way " gammy" [bad] are ever mentioned in these 
papers, and the cadger, if he feels inclined to stop for a few days 
in the town, will be told by the lodging-house keeper, or the 
other cadgers that he may meet there, what gentlemen's seats or 
private houses are of any account on the walk that he means to 
take. The names of the good houses are not set down in the 
paper for fear of the police." — Mayhem t vol. i., p. 418. 
f Mayhew, vol. i., p. 218. 



Hosted by G00gk 



\ 



40 ACCOUNT OF A CADGER'S MAP. 

was obtained from the patterers and tramps who 
supplied a great many words for this work, and 
who have been employed by me for some time in 
collecting Old Ballads, Christmas Carols, Dying 
Speeches, and Last Lamentations, as materials for 
a History of Popidar Literature. The reader will 
no doubt be amused with the drawing. The 
locality depicted is near Maidstone, in Kent, and I 
am informed that it was probably sketched by a wan- 
dering screever* in payment for a night's lodg- 
ing. The English practice of marking everything, 
and scratching names on public property, extends 
itself to the tribe of vagabonds. On the map, as 
may be seen in the left hand corner, some travel- 
ler* has drawn a favourite or noted female, sin- 
gularly nick-named Three-quarter Sarah. What 
were the peculiar accomplishments of this lady to 
demand so uncommon a name, the reader will be 
at a loss to discover, but a patterer says it probably 
refers to a shuffling dance of that name, common in 
tramps' lodging-houses, and in which "f Sarah" 
may have been a proficient. Above her, three 
beggars or hawkers have reckoned their day's 
earnings, amounting to 13s.; and on the right a 
tolerably correct sketch of a low hawker, or coster- 
monger, is drawn. " To Dover, the nigh way," is 
the exact phraseology ; and " hup here," a fair 
specimen of the self-acquired education of the tribe 
* See Dictionary. 



Hosted by G00gk 



EXPLANATION OF THE HIEROGLYPHICS. 41 

of cadgers. No key or explanation to the hiero- 
glyphics was given in the original, because it would 
have been superfluous, when every inmate of the 
lodging-house knew the marks from their cradle — 
or rather their mother's back. 

Should there be no map, " in most lodging- 
houses there is an old man who is guide to every 
' walk' in the vicinity, and who can tell each 
house on every round, that is ' good for a cold 
tatur.' "* The hieroglyphics that are used are: — 



X NO GOOD ; too poor, and know too much. 
f\t t STOP,— If you have what they want, they will buy. 
3 They are pretty "fly" (knowing). 

GO IN THIS DIRECTION", it is better than the other 
road. Nothing that way. 



.J-- 



A 



i ) BONE (good). Safe for a " cold tatur," if for nothing 
V e i S e. " Cheese your patter" (don't talk much) heie. 

XJ COOPER D (spoilt), by too many tramps calling there. 

A GAMMY (unfavourable), likely to have you taken up. 

~ J Mind the dog. 

j-^v FLUMMUXED (dangerous), sure of a month in " quod " 

w (prison). 

© RELIGIOUS, but tidy on the whole. 

Where did these signs come from, and when 
were they first used? are questions which I have 
asked myself again and again, whilst endeavouring 
to discover their history. Knowing the character 
of the Gipseys, and ascertaining from a tramp that 
they are well acquainted with the hieroglyphics, 

* Mayheio, vol. i., p. 218. 



Hosted by G00gk 



42 DID TEE GTPSEYS INVENT THEM"? 

" and have been as Ions: ao-o as ever he could 
remember," I have little hesitation in ascribing the 
invention to them. And strange it would be if 
some modern Belzoni, or Champollion, discovered 
in these beggars' marks fragments of ancient 
Egyptian or Hindoo hieroglyphical writing ! But 
this, of course, is a simple vagary of the imagi- 
nation. 

That the Gipseys were in the habit of leaving 
memorials of the road they had taken, and the 
successes that had befallen them, there can be no 
doubt. In an old book, The Triumph of Wit, 
1724, there is a passage which appears to have been 
copied from some older work, and it runs thus: — 
" The Gipseys set out twice a year, and scatter all 
over England, each parcel having their appointed 
stages, that they may not interfere, nor hinder each 
other ; and for that purpose, when they set forward 
in the country, they stick up boughs in the ivay of 
divers kinds, according as it is agreed among them, 
that one company may knotv which tuay another is 
gone, and so take a different road" The works of 
Hoyland and Borrow supply other instances. 

I cannot close this subject without drawing 
attention to the extraordinary fact, that actually on 
the threshold of the gibbet the sign of the vaga- 
bond is to be met with ! " The murderer's signal 
is even exhibited from the gallows; as a red hand- 
kerchief held in the hand of the felon about to be 



Hosted by G00gk 



r* 



THE MURDERER'S SIGNAL ON THE GALLOWS. 43 

executed is a token that he dies without having 
betrayed any professional secrets."* 

Since the first edition of this work was published 
the author has received from various parts of Eng- 
land numerous evidences of the still active use of 
beggars' marks, and mendicant hieroglyphics. One 
gentleman writes from Great Yarmouth to say that 
only a short time since, whilst residing in Norwich, 
he used frequently to see them on the houses and 
street corners. From another gentleman, a clergy- 
man, I learn that he has so far made himself 
acquainted with the meanings of the signs em- 
ployed, that by himself marking the characters 
D (Gammy) or (Flummuxed) on the gate posts 
of his parsonage, he enjoys a singular immunity 
from alms-seekers of all orders. 

* Mr. Rawlinsoris Report to the General Board of Health — 
Parish of Havant, Hampshire. 



Hosted by G00gk 



\ 



THE HISTORY OF SLANG, 

OR THE 

VULGAR LANGUAGE OF FAST LIFE. 



Slang is the language of street humour, of fast, 
high, and low life. Cant, as was stated in the 
chapter upon that subject, is the vulgar language 
of secrecy. They are both universal and ancient, 
and appear to have been the peculiar concomitants 
°f g a y> vulgar, or worthless persons in every part 
of the world, at every period of time. Indeed, if 
we are to believe implicitly the saying of the wise 
man, that " there is nothing new under the sun," 
the " fast" men of buried Nineveh, with their 
knotty and door-matty looking beards, may have 
cracked Slang jokes on the steps of Sennacherib's 
palace ; and the stocks and stones of Ancient 
Egypt, and the bricks of venerable and used-up 
Babylon, may, for aught we know, be covered 
with Slang hieroglyphics unknown to modern anti- 
quarians, and which have long been stumbling- 
blocks to the philologist ; so impossible is it at this 



Hosted by G00gk 



OLD ENGLISH SLANG. 45 

day to say what was then authorised, or what then 
vulgar language. Slang is as old as speech and 
the congregating together of people in cities. It 
is the result of crowding, and excitement, and arti- 
ficial life. Even to the classics it was not unknown, 
as witness the pages of Aristophanes and Plautus, 
Terence and Athenseus. Martial, the epigramma- 
tist, is full of Slang. When an uninvited guest 
accompanied his friend, the Slang of the day styled 
him his umbra; when a man was trussed, neck 
and heels, it called him jocosely QUADRUPUS. 

Old English Slang was coarser, and depended 
more upon downright vulgarity than our modern 
Slang. It was a jesting speech, or humorous indul- 
gence for the thoughtless moment, or the drunken 
hour, and it acted as a vent-peg for a fit of temper 
or irritability ; but it did not interlard and per- 
meate every description of conversation as now. 
It was confined to nick-names and improper sub- 
jects, and encroached but to a very small extent 
upon the domain of authorised speech. Indeed, it 
was exceedingly limited when compared with the 
vast territory of Slang in such general favour and 
complete circulation at the present day. Still, 
although not an alarming encumbrance, as in our 
time, Slang certainly did exist in this country cen- 
turies ago, as we may see if we look down the page 
of any respectable History of England. Cromwell 
was familiarly called old noll, — just the same 



Hosted by G00gk 



46 OLD ENGLISH SLANG. 

as Buonaparte was termed BONEY, and Wellington 
CONKEY, or nosey, only a few years ago. His 
Legislature, too, was spoken of in a high-flavoured 
way as the barebones, or rump Parliament, and 
his followers were nicknamed ROUNDHEADS, and 
the peculiar religious sects of his protectorate were 
styled PURITANS and QUAKERS.* The Civil War 
pamphlets, and the satirical hits of the Cavaliers and 
the Commonwealth men, originated numerous Slang 
words and vulgar similes, in full use at the present 
moment. Here is a field of inquiry for the Philo- 
logical Society, indeed I may say a territory, for 
there are thirty thousand of these partisan tracts. 
Later still, in the court of Charles the Second, the 
naughty ladies and the gay lords, with Rochester 
at their head, talked Slang; and very naughty Slang 
it was too ! Fops, in those days, when " over head 
and ears" in debt, and in continual fear of arrest, 
termed their enemies, the bailiffs, PHlLlSTlNESf or 
MOABTTES. At a later period, when collars were 
worn detached from shirts, in order to save the 
expense of washing — an object it would seem with 
needy " swells' 5 in all ages — they obtained the name 
of JACOBITES. One half of the coarse wit in 

* This term, with a singular literal downrightness, which 
would be remarkable in any other people than the French, is 
translated by them as the sect of Tremblews. 

f Swift alludes to this term in his Art of Polite Conversation, 
p. 14. 1738. 



Hosted by G00gk 



SWIFT AND ARBUTHNOT FOND OF SLANG. 47 

Butler's Hudibras lurks in the vulgar words and 
phrases which he was so fond of employing. They 
were more homely and forcible than the mild and 
elegant sentences of Cowley, and the people, 
therefore, hurrah'd them, and pronounced Butler 
one of themselves, — or, as we should say, in a 
joyful moment, a jolly good fellow. Orator Henley 
preached and prayed in Slang, and first charmed 
and then swayed the dirty mobs in Lincoln's Inn 
Fields by vulgarisms. Burly Grose mentions Hen- 
ley, with the remark that we owe a great many 
Slang phrases to him. Swift, and old Sir Eoger 
L'Estrange, and Arbuthnot, were all fond of vulgar 
or Slang language ; indeed, we may see from a Slang 
word used by the latter how curious is the gradual 
adoption of vulgar terms in our standard diction- 
aries. The worthy doctor, in order to annihilate 
(or, as we should say with a fitting respect to the 
subject under consideration, smash) an opponent, 
thought proper on an occasion to use the word 
cabbage, not in the ancient and esculentary sense 
of a flatulent vegetable of the kitchen garden, but 
in the at once Slang sense of purloining or cribbing. 
Johnson soon met with the word, looked at it, 
examined it, weighed it, and shook his head, but 
out of respect to a brother doctor inserted it in 
his dictionary, labelling it, however, prominently 
" Cant ;" whilst Walker and Webster, years after, 
when to cabbage was to pilfer all over England, 



Hosted by G00gk 



48 THE REAL SIMON PURE. 

placed the term in their dictionaries as an ancient 
and very respectable word. Another Slang term, 
GULL, to cheat, or delude, sometimes varied to 
G-ULLY, is stated to be connected with the Dean of 
St. Patrick. Gull, a dupe, or a fool, is often used 
by our old dramatists, and is generally believed to 
have given rise to the verb; but a curious little 
edition of Bamfylde Moore Careiv, published in 
1827, says that TO GULL, or GULLY, is derived 
from the well known Gulliver, the hero of the 
famous Travels. How crammed with Slang are the 
dramatic works of the last century ! The writers 
of the comedies and farces in those days must have 
lived in the streets, and written their plays in the 
public-houses, so filled are they with vulgarisms and 
unauthorised words. The popular phrases, " I owe 
you one," u that's one for his nob," and "keep 
moving, dad," arose in this way.*" The second of 
these sayings was, doubtless, taken from the card 
table, for at cribbage the player who holds the 
knave of the suit turned up counts " one for his 
nob," and the dealer who turns up a knave counts 
u two for his heels." 

In Mrs. Centlivre's admirable comedy of A 
Bold Stroke for a Wife, we see the origin of that 
popular street phrase, THE REAL SIMON PURE. 
Simon Pure is the Quaker name adopted by 
Colonel Feignwell as a trick to obtain the hand of 

* See Notes and Queries, vol. i., p. 185. 1850. 



Hosted by G00gk 



TOM BROWN AND NED WARD. 49 

Mistress Anne Lovely in marriage. The veritable 
Quaker, the " real Simon Pure," recommended by 
Aminadab Holdfast, of Bristol, as a fit sojourner 
with Obadiah Prim, arrives at last to the discom- 
fiture of the Colonel, who, to maintain his position 
and gain time, concocts a letter in which the real ' | 
Quaker is spoken of as a housebreaker who had I 

travelled in the "leather conveniency" from \ 

Bristol, and adopted the garb and name of the 
Western Quaker in order to pass off as the " REAL 
SIMON PURE," but only for the purpose of rob- 
bing the house and cutting the throat of the per- 
plexed Obadiah. The scene in which the two J 
Simon Pures, the real and the counterfeit, meet, ^ 
is one of the best in the comedy. _ \ 

Tom Brown, of "facetious memory," as his ^ 
friends were wont to say, and Ned Ward, who , 

wrote humorous books, and when tired drew beer 
for his customers at his ale-house in Long Acre * 
were both great producers of Slang in the last cen- 
tury, and to them we owe many popular current 
phrases and household words. \ 

Written Slang was checked rather than advanced 
by the pens of Addison, Johnson, and Goldsmith, \, 
although John Bee, the bottle-holder and histono- ', 

grapher of the pugilistic band of brothers in the m 

youthful days of fiat-nosed Tom Crib, has gravely ^ 

* He afterwards kept a tavern at Wapping, mentioned by 

Pope in the Dmiciad. 

E 

^—7 T"^l 

Hosted by CjOOgle 



] 



} 



con- 
's 



^ 50 WAS DR. JOHNSON WELL "UP" IN SLANG? 

g stated that Johnson, when young and rakish, cox 

■ tnbuted to an early volume of the Gentleman's 

I %«a few pages, by way of specimen, of a 

| Slang dictionary, the result, Mr. Bee says, « f his 

, midnight ramblingsP* And Goldsmith, I must 

F not forget to remark, certainly coined a few words, 

although, as a rule, his pen was pure and graceful, 
} and adverse to neologisms. The word fudge, it has 

been stated, was first used by him in literary com- 
position, although it originated with one Captain 
*udge, a notorious fibber, nearly a century before. 
^ btreet-phrases, nick-names, and vulgar words were 

^ continually being added to the great stock of popu- 

y lar Slang U p to the commencement of the present 
r century, when it received numerous additions from 
f pugilism, horse-racing, and "fast" life generally 
J which suddenly came into great public favour, and 

IT was at its height when the Prince Regent was in 

I his rakish minority. Slang in those days was gene- 

I rally termed flash language. So popular was it 

L with the « bloods " of high life that it constituted the 

best paying literary capital for certain authors and 
, dramatists. Pierce Egan issued Boxiana, and Life 
/ m London, six portly octavo volumes, crammed 
I with Slang; and Moncrieff wrote the most popular 

| farce of the day, Tom and Jerry (adapted from the 

■*. latter work), which, to use newspaper Slang, " took 

* Sportsman's Dictionary, 1825, P . 15. I have searched the 
venerable magazine in vain for this Slang glossary. 



WHERE DID THE WORD " SLANG " COME FROM 1 51 

the town by storm," and, with its then fashionable 
vulgarisms, made the fortune of the old Adelphi 
Theatre, and was, without exception, the most 
wonderful instance of a continuous theatrical RUN 
in ancient or modern times. This, also, was brim- 
ful of Slang. Other authors helped to popularise 
and extend Slang down to our own time, when it 
has taken a somewhat different turn, dropping 
many of the Cant and old vulgar words, and 
assuming a certain quaint and fashionable phrase- 
ology — Frenchy, familiar, utilitarian, and jovial. 
There can be no doubt but that common speech is 
greatly influenced by fashion, fresh manners, and 
that general change of ideas which steals over a 
people once in a generation. But before I proceed 
further into the region of Slang, it will be well to 
say something on the etymology of the word. 

The word Slang is only mentioned by two 
lexicographers — Webster and Ogilvie. Johnson, 
Walker, and the older compilers of dictionaries, 
give slang the preterite of sling, but not a word 
about Slang in the sense of low, vulgar, or un- 
recognised language. The origin of the word has 
often been asked for in literary journals and books, 
but only one man, as far as I can learn, has ever 
hazarded an etymology — Jonathan Bee, the vulgar 
chronicler of the prize-ring.* With a recklessness 
peculiar to pugilism, Bee stated that Slang was 

* Introduction to Bee's Sportsman's Dictionary, 1825. 



^4 



52 CORRECT ETYMOLOGY OF SLANG. 

derived from " the slangs or fetters worn by pri- 
soners, having acquired that name from the manner 
m which they were worn, as they required a sling 
of string to keep them off the ground." Bee had 
just been nettled at Pierce Egan producing a new 
edition o£ Grose s Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue, 
and was determined to excel him in a vulgar dic- 
tionary of his own, which should be more racy, 
more pugilistic, and more original. How far he 
succeeded in this latter particular his ridiculous 
etymology of Slang will show. Slang is not an r 
English word, it is the Gipsey term for their secret 
language, and its synonyme is gibberish — another^ 
word which was believed to have had no distinct 
origin.* Grose— stout and burly Captain Grose 
— who we may characterise as the greatest anti- 
<l uar y> j°ker, and drinker of porter of his day, 
was the first author who put the word Slang into 
print. It occurs in his Classical Dictionary of the 
Vulgar Tongue, of 1785, with the signification that 
it implies "Cant or vulgar language." Grose, I 

* The Gipseys use the word Slang as the Anglican synonyme 
for Romany, the continental (or rather Spanish) term for the 
Cingari or Gipsey tongue. Crabb, who wrote the Gipsies' Advo- 
cate in 1831, thus mentions the word : — " This language [Gipsey] 
called by themselves Slang, or Gibberish, invented, as they think, 
by their forefathers for secret purposes, is not merely the language 
of one or a few of these wandering tribes, which are found in 
the European nations, but is adopted by the vast numbers who 
inhabit the earth." 



Hosted by G00gk 



SLANG USED BY ALL CLASSES, HIGH AND LOW. 53 

may remark in passing, was a great favourite with 
the poet Burns, and so pleased by his extensive 
powers of story-telling and grog-imbibing, that the 
companionable and humour-loving Scotch bard 
wrote for his fat friend — or, to use his own words, 
" the fine, fat, fodgel wight " — the immortal poem 
of " Tarn O'Shanter." 

Without troubling the reader with along account 
of the transformation into an English term of the 
word Slang, I may remark in passing that it is 
easily seen how we obtained it from the Gipseys. 
Hucksters and beggars on tramp, or at fairs and 
races, associate and frequently join in any rough 
enterprise with the Gipseys. The word would be 
continually heard by them, and would in this 
manner soon become Cant;* and, when carried by 
"fast" or vulgar fashionables from the society of 
thieves and low characters to their own drawing- 
rooms, would as quickly become Slang, and the re- 
presentative term for all vulgar or Slang language. 

Any sudden excitement, peculiar circumstance, 
or popular literary production, is quite sufficient to 
originate and set going a score of Slang words. 
Nearly every election or public agitation throws out 
offshoots of the excitement, or scintillations of the 

* The word Slang assumed various meanings amongst coster- 
mongers, beggars, and vagabonds of all orders. It was, and is 
still, used to express cheating by false weights, a raree show, for 
retiring by a back door, for a watch-chain, and for their secret 
language. 



Hosted by G00gk 



54 SLANG UNIVERSAL. 

humour in the shape of Slang terms — vulgar at 
first, "but at length adopted as semi-respectable 
from the force of habit and custom. There is 
scarcely a condition or calling in life that does not 
possess its own peculiar Slang. The professions, 
legal and medical, have each familiar and unautho- 
rised terms for peculiar circumstances and things, 
and I am quite certain that the clerical calling, or 
" the cloth" is not entirely free from this peculiarity. 
Every workshop, warehouse, factory, and mill 
throughout the country has its Slang, and so have 
the public schools of Eton, Harrow, and West- 
minster, and the great Universities of Oxford and 
Cambridge. Sea Slang constitutes the principal 
charm of a sailor's " yarn," and our soldiers and 
officers have each their peculiar nicknames and 
terms for things and subjects proper and improper. 
A writer in Household Words (No. 183) has gone 
so far as to remark, that a person " shall not read 
one single parliamentary debate, as reported in a 
first-class newspaper, without meeting scores of 
Slang words ;" and " that from Mr. Speaker in his 
chair, to the Cabinet Ministers whispering behind 
it — from mover to seconder, from true blue Protec- 
tionist to extremest Radical — Mr. Barry's New 
House echoes and re-echoes with Slang." Really it 
seems as if our boasted English tongue was a very 
paltry and ill-provided contrivance after all ; or can 
it be that we are the most vulgar of people ? 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE POOH FOREIGNER'S PERPLEXITY. 00 

The universality of Slang is extraordinary. Let 
any person for a short time narrowly examine the 
conversation of their dearest and nearest friends, 
aye, censor-like, even slice and analyse their own 
supposed correct talk, and they shall be amazed at 
the numerous unauthorised, and what we can only 
call vulgar, words they continually employ. It 
is not the number of new words that we are ever 
introducing that is so reprehensible, there is not so 
much harm in this practice (frequently termed in 
books " the license of expression") if neologisms 
are really required, but it is the continually encum- 
bering of old words with fresh and strange mean- 
ings. Look at those simple and useful verbs, 
do, cut, go, and take, and see how they are 
< hampered and overloaded, and then let us ask 
ourselves how it is that a French or German 
gentleman, be he ever so well educated, is con- 
tinually blundering and floundering amongst our 
little words when trying to make himself under- 
stood in an ordinary conversation. He may have 
studied our language the required time, and have 
gone through the usual amount of '' Grinding," and 
practised the common allotment of patience, but all 
to no purpose as far as accuracy is concerned. I 
am aware that most new words are generally re- 
garded as Slang, although afterwards they may 
become useful and respectable additions to our 
standard dictionaries. Jabbeil and hoax were 



Hosted by G00gk 



58 LONG AND WINDY SLANG WOttDS. 

Slang and Cant terms in Swift's time; so indeed 
were mob and sham.* Words directly from the 
Latin and Greek, and Carlyleisms, are allowed 
by an indulgent public to pass and take their 
places in books. Sound contributes many Slang 
words — a source that etymologists too frequently 
overlook. Nothing pleases an ignorant person 
more than a high-sounding term "full of fury." 
How r melodious and drum-like are those vulvar 
coruscations rumbumptious, slantingdicular, 

SPLENDIFEROUS, RUMBUSTIOUS, and FERRICA- 
DOUZER. What a "pull" the sharp-nosed 
lodging-house keeper thinks she has over her 
victims if she can but hurl such testimonies of 
a liberal education at them when they are dis- 
puting her charges, and threatening to ABSQUA- 
TULATE ! In the United States the vulgar-genteel 
even excel the poor " stuck-up" Cockneys in their 
formation of a native fashionable language. How 
charming to a refined ear are abskize, catawam- 

POUSLY, EXFLUNCTIFT, OBSCUTE, KESLOSH, 

kesouse, keswollop, and kewhollux ! Vul- 
gar words representing action and brisk movement 

* North, in his Examen, p. 574, says, "I may Dote that the 
rabble first changed their title, and were called the mob in the 
assemblies of this [Green Ribbon] club. It was their beast of 
burden, and called first mobile vulgus, but fell naturally into the 
contraction of one syllable, and ever since is become proper 
English/' In the same work, p. 231, the disgraceful origin of 
sham is given. 



Hosted by G00gk 



VULGAR CORRUPTIONS. 57 

often owe their origin to sound. Mispronunciation, 
too, is another great source of vulgar or slang 

Words— RAMSHACKLE, SHACKLY, NARY- ONE for 

neither, or neither one, ottomy for anatomy, 
rench for rinse, are specimens. The commonalty 
dislike frequently occurring words difficult of pro- 
nunciation, and so we have the street abridgments 
of bimeby for by and by, CAZE for because, GIN 
for given, hankercher for handkerchief, RUMA- 
Tiz for rheumatism, BACKY for tobacco, and many 
others, not perhaps Slang, but certainly all vul- 
garisms. Archbishop "Whately, in his interesting 
Remains of Bishop Copleston, has inserted a leaf 
from the Bishop's note-book on the popular corrup- 
tion of names, mentioning among others KICK- 
SHAWS, as from the French, quelques clioses ; 
beefeater, the lubberly guardian of royalty 
in a procession, and the supposed devourer of 
enormous beefsteaks, as but a vulgar pronunciation 
of the French, buffetier ; and GEORGE and CAN- 
NON, the sign of a public-house, as nothing but a 
corruption (although so soon !) of the popular 
premier of the last generation, George Canning, 
Literature has its Slang terms ; and the desire on 
the part of writers to say funny and startling things 
in a novel and curious way (the late Household 
Words * for instance), contributes many unautho- 
rised words to the great stock of Slang. 

* It is rather singular that this popular journal should have 
contained a long article on Slang a short time ago. 



Hosted by G00gk 



58 FASHIONABLE SLANG. 

Fashionable, or Upper-class Slang, is of several 
varieties. There is the Belgravian, military and 
naval, parliamentary, dandy, and the reunion and 
visiting Slang. Concerning the Slang of the 
fashionable world, a writer in Household Words 
curiously, but not altogether truthfully, remarks, 
that it is mostly imported from France; and that 
an unmeaning gibberish of Gallicisms runs through 
English fashionable conversation, and fashionable 
novels, and accounts of fashionable parties in the 
fashionable newspapers. Yet, ludicrously enough, 
immediately the fashionable magnates of England 
seize on any French idiom, the French themselves 
not only universally abandon it to us, but posi- 
tively repudiate it altogether from their idiomatic 
vocabulary. If you were to tell a well-bred French- 
man that such and such an aristocratic marriage 
was on the tapis, he would stare with astonishment, 
and look down on the carpet in the startled endea- 
vour to find a marriage in so unusual a place. If 
you were to talk to him of the beau monde, he 
would imagine you meant the world which God 
made, not half-a-dozen streets and squares between 
Hyde Park Corner and Chelsea Bun House. The 
the dansante* would be completely inexplicable to 
him. If you were to point out to him the Dow- 

* The writer is quite correct in instancing this piece of 
fashionable twaddle. The mongrel formation is exceedingly 
amusing to a polite Parisian. 



Hosted by G00gk 



FASHIONABLE SLANG. 59 

ager Lady Grimguffin acting as chaperon to Lady 
Amanda Creamville, he would imagine you were 
referring to the petit Chaperon rouge — to little 
Red Riding Hood. He might just understand 
what was meant by vis-a-vis, entremets, and some 
others of the flying horde of frivolous little foreign 
slangisms hovering about fashionable cookery and 
fashionable furniture ; but three-fourths of them 
would seem to him as barbarous French provin- 
cialisms, or, at best, but as antiquated and obsolete 
expressions, picked out of the letters of Made- 
moiselle Scuderi, or the tales of Crebillon the 
"younger." Servants, too, appropriate the scraps 
of French conversation which fall from their 
masters' guests at the dinner table, and forthwith in 
the world of flunkey do m the word "know" is 
disused, and the lady's maid, in doubt on a par- 
ticular point, asks John whether or no he s A vets 
it ?* What, too, can be more abominable than 
that heartless piece of fashionable newspaper Slang, 
regularly employed when speaking of the success- 
ful courtship of young people in the fashionable 
world : — 

MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE.- We understand that a mar- 
riage is arranged (!) betwixt the Lady, &c. &c, and the 
Honourable, &c. &c. 

Arranged ! Is that cold-blooded Smithfield or 
Mark-lane term for a sale or a purchase the proper 

* Savez vous ceia ? 



Hosted by G00gk 



60 PARLIAMENTARY SLANG. 

word to express the hopeful, joyous, golden union 
of young and trustful hearts? Which is the proper 
way to pronounce the names of great people, and 
what the correct authority ? Lord Cowper, we are 
often assured, is Lord Cooper — on this principle 
Lord Cowley would certainly be Lord Cooley — 
and Mr. Carew, we are told, should be Mr. Carey, 
Ponsonby should be Punsunby, Eyre should be 
Aire, Chohnondeley should be Chumley, St. John 
Sing en, Majoribanks Marshbanks, Derby Darby (its 
ancient pronunciation), and Powell should always 
be Poel. I don't know that these lofty persons have 
as much cause to complain of the illiberality of fate 
in giving them disagreeable names as did the cele- 
brated Psyche (as she was termed by Tom Moore), 
whose original name, through her husband, was 
Teague, but which Was afterwards altered to Tighe. 
Parliamentary Slang, excepting a few peculiar 
terms connected with " the House" (scarcely Slang, 
I suppose), is mainly composed of fashionable, 
literary, and learned Slang. When members, how- 
ever, get excited and wish to be forcible, they are 
often not very particular which of the street terms 
they select, providing it carries, as good old Dr. 
South said, plenty of wild-fire in it. Sir Hugh 
Cairns very lately spoke of " that homely but 
expressive phrase, dodge." Out of " the House," 
several Slang terms are used in connection with 
Parliament or members of Parliament. If Lord 



Hosted by G00gk 



PARLIAMENTARY SLANG. 61 

Palmerston is known by name to the tribes of the 
Caucasus and Asia Minor as a great foreign 
diplomatist, when the name of our Queen Victoria 
is an unknown title to the inhabitants of those 
parts — as was stated in the Times a short time 
ago, — I have only to remark that amongst the 
costers and the wild inhabitants of the streets he 
is better known as pam. I have often heard the 
cabmen on the "ranks" in Piccadilly remark of 
the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he 
has been ffoina; from his residence at Grosvenor 
Gate, to Derby House in St. James's Square, — - 
"hollo, there! de yer see old dizzy doing a 
stump?" A plumper is a single vote at an elec- 
tion, — not a split-ticket; and electors who have 
occupied a house, no matter how small, and boiled a 
pot in it, thus qualifying themselves for voting, are 
termed pot-wollopers. A quiet walk over 
is a re-election without opposition and much cost. 
A CAUCUS meeting refers to the private assembling 
of politicians before an election, when candidates 
are chosen and measures of action agreed upon. 
The term comes from America. A job, in political 
phraseology, is a government office or contract 
obtained by secret influence or favouritism. Only 
the other day the Times spoke of " the patriotic 
member of Parliament potted out in a dusty 
little lodging somewhere about Bury-street." The 
term quockerwodger, although referring to a 



Hosted by G00gk 



62 MILITARY AND BANDY SLANG. 

wooden toy figure which jerks its limbs about 
when pulled by a string, has been supplemented 
with a political meaning. A pseudo-politician, 
one whose strings of action are pulled by somebody 
else, is now often termed a quockerwodger. The 
term rat, too, in allusion to rats deserting vessels 
about to sink, has long been employed towards 
those turncoat politicians who change their party 
for interest. Who that occasionally passes near the 
Houses of Parliament has not often noticed stout 
or careful M.P.s walk briskly through the Hall 
and on the curb-stone in front, with umbrella or 
walking cane uplifted, shout to the cabmen on the 
rank, FOUR-WHEELER ! The term is a useful one, 
but I am afraid we must consider it Slang, until it 
is stamped with the mint mark of lexicographical 
authority.* 

Military, or Officers" Slaw) is on a par, and of a 
character with Dandy Slang. Inconvenient friends, 
or elderly and lecturing relatives, are pronounced 
dreadful bores. Four-wheel cabs are called 
BOUNDERS; and a member of the Four-in-hand 

* From an early period politics and party ism have attracted 
unto themselves quaint Slang terms. Horace Walpole quotes a 
party nickname of February, 1742, as a Slang word of the day : — 
"The Tories declare against any further prosecution, if Tories 
there are, for now one hears of nothing but the broad-bottom; 
it is the reigning Cant word, and means the taking all parties 
and people, indifferently, into the ministry." Thus broad- 
bottom in those days was Mang for coalition. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MILITARY AND DANDY SLANG. 63 

Club, driving to Epsom on the Derby clay, would, 
using fashionable slang phraseology, speak of it as 
TOOLING HIS DRAG DOWN" TO THE DERBY. A 

vehicle, if not a drag (or dwag) is a trap, or 
a CASK; and if the TURN OUT happens to be in 
other than a trim condition, it is pronounced at 
once as not down the road. Your city swell 
would say it is not UP TO THE MARK; whilst 
the costermoncrer would call it WERY DICKEY. In 
the army a barrack or military station is known as 
a LOBSTER-BOX; to "cram" for an examination 
is to mug-UP; to reject from the examination is to 
SPIN; and that part of the barrack occupied by 
subalterns is frequently spoken of as the rookery. 
In dandy or swell Slang, any celebrity, from Rob- 
son of the Olympic, to the Pope of Rome, is a 
swell. Wrinkled faced old professors, who hold 
dress and fashionable tailors in abhorrence, are 
called awful swells, — if they happen to be very 
learned or clever. I may remark that in this upper 
class Slang a title is termed a handle; trousers, 
inexpressibles; or when of a large pattern, or 
the inflated Zouave cut, howling bags ; a 
superior appearance, EXTENSIVE; a four-wheeled 
cab, a birdcage; a dance, a HOP; dining at 
another man's table, " sitting under his MA- 
HOGANY;" anything flashy or showy, LOUD; the 
peculiar make or cut of a coat, its BUILD; full 
dress, full-fig ; wearing clothes which represent 



Hosted by G00gk 



64 UNIVERSITY SLANG. 

the very extreme of fashion, " dressing to. DEATH;" 
a reunion, a SPREAD; a friend (or a " good fellow"), 
a TKUMP; a difficulty, a SCREW LOOSE; and every- 
thing that is unpleasant, " from bad sherry to a 
writ from a tailor/' jeuced infernal. The 
military phrase, " to send a man to Coventry," 
or permit no person to speak to him, although an 
ancient saying, must still be considered Slang. 

The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and 
the great public schools, are the hotbeds of fashion- 
able Slang. Growing boys and high-spirited young 
fellows detest restraint of all kinds, and prefer 
making a dash at life in a Slang phraseology of 
their own, to all the set forms and syntactical rules 
of Alma Mater, Many of the most expressive 
words in a common chit-chat, or free-and-easy con- 
versation, are old University vulgarisms. Cut, in 
the sense of dropping an acquaintance, was origin- 
ally a Cambridge form of speech; and hoax, to 
deceive or ridicule, we are informed by Grose, was 
many years since an Oxford term. Among the 
words that fast society has borrowed from our great 
scholastic [I was going to say establishments, but I 
remembered the linen drapers' horrid and habitual 
use of the word] institutions^ I find crib, a house 
or apartments ; dead-men, empty wine bottles ; 
DRAWING- TEETH,* wrenching off knockers ; 

* This is more especially an amusement with medical students, 
and is comparatively unknown out of London. 



Hosted by G00gle ; 



UNIVERSITY SLANG. 65 

FIZZING, first-rate, or splendid; GOVERNOR, or 
relieving officer, the general term for a male 
parent; PLUCKED, defeated or turned back; QUIZ, 
to scrutinise, or a prying old fellow ; and ROW, a 
noisy disturbance. The Slang words in use at Ox- 
ford and Cambridge would alone fill a volume. As 
examples I may instance SCOUT, which at Oxford 
refers to an undergraduate's valet, whilst the same 
menial at Cambridge is termed a GYP, — popularly 
derived by the Cantabs from the Greek, GYPS 
(yvip), a vulture; SCULL, the head, or master of a 
college; battles, the Oxford term for rations, 
changed at Cambridge into COMMONS. The term 
DICKEY, a half shirt, I am told, originated with the 
students of Trinity College, Dublin, who at first 
styled it a tommy, from the Greek, rofii), a sec- 
tion. Crib, a literal translation, is now universal; 
GRIND refers to a walk, or "constitutional;" 
hivite is a student of St. Begh's (St. Bee's) Col- 
lege, Cumberland; to japan, in this Slang speech, is 
to ordain; mortar-board is a square college cap; 
SIM a student of a Methodistical turn, — in allusion 
to the Eev. Charles Simeon; SLOGGERS, at Cam- 
bridge, refers to the second division of race boats, 
known at Oxford as TORPIDS; SPORT is to show 
or exhibit; trotter is the jocose term for a tailor's 
man who goes round for orders; and TUFTS are 
wealthy students who dine with the DONS, and are 
distinguished by golden tvfts, or tassels, in their 

F 



Hosted by G00gk 



66 RELIGIOUS SLANG. 

caps. There are many terms in use at Oxford not 
known at Cambridge ; and such Slang names as 

COACH, GULF, HARRY-SOPH, POKER, or POST- 
MORTEM, common enough at Cambridge, are seldom 
or never heard at the great sister University. For 
numerous other examples of college Slang, the 
reader is referred to the Dictionary. 

Religious Slang, strange as the compound may 
appear, exists with other descriptions of vulgar 
speech at the present day. Punch, a short time 
since, in one of those half-humorous, half-serious 
articles in which he is so fond of lecturing any 
national abuse or popular folly, remarked that 
Slang had " long since penetrated into the Forum, 
and now we meet it in the Senate, and even the 
Pulpit itself is no longer free from its intrusion''' 
I would not, for one moment, wish to infer that the 
practice is general. On the contrary, and in justice 
to the clergy, it must be said that the principal 
disseminators of pure English throughout the 
country are the ministers of our Established 
Church. Yet it cannot be denied but that a great 
deal of Slang phraseology and disagreeable vul- 
garism have gradually crept into the very pulpits 
which should give forth as pure speech as doctrine. 

Dean Conybeare, in his able Essay on Church 
Parties,* has noticed this wretched addition to our 
pulpit speech. As stated in his Essay, the practice 
* Edinburgh Review, October, 1853. 



Hosted by G00gk 



'religious slang. 67 

appears to confine itself mainly to the exaggerated 
forms of the High and Low Church — the Tracta- 
rians and the " Recordites."* By way of illustra- 
tion, the Dean cites the evening parties, or social 
meetings, common amongst the wealthier lay mem- 
bers of the Eecordite (exaggerated Evangelical) 
Churches, where the principal topics discussed — one 
or more favourite clergymen being present in a 
quasi-official manner — are " the merits and demerits 
of different preachers, the approaching restoration 
of the Jews, the date of the Millennium, the pro- 
gress of the ' Tractarian heresy,' and the anticipated 
'perversion' of High Church neighbours." These 
subjects are canvassed in a dialect differing consider- 
ably from common English. The words faithful, 

TAINTED, ACCEPTABLE, DECIDED, LEGAL, and 

many others, are used in a technical sense. We hear 
that Mr. A. has been more owned than Mr. B ; and 
that Mr. C. has more SEALSf than Mr. D. Again, 
the word GRACIOUS is invested with a meaning as 
extensive as that attached by young ladies to nice. 
Thus, we hear of a u gracious sermon," a 
" GRACIOUS meeting," a " GRACIOUS child, and 
even a " GRACIOUS whipping." The word dark 

* A term derived from the Record Neivsjoaper, the exponent 
of this singular section of the Low, or so called Evangelical 
Church. 

+ A preacher is said, in this phraseology, to be owned, when 
he makes many converts, and his converts are called his seals. 

F 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



68 



RELIGIOUS SLANG. 



has also a new and peculiar usage. It is applied to 
every person, book, or place, not impregnated with 
Eecordite principles. We once were witnesses of a 
ludicrous misunderstanding resulting from this phra- 
seology. « What did you mean (said A. to B.) by 

telling me that was such a very dark village ? 

I rode over there to day, and found the street par- 
ticularly broad and cheerful, and there is not a tree 
in the place." " The Gospel is not preached there" 
was B.'s laconic reply. The conclusion of one of 
these singular evening parties is generally marked 
by an " exposition " — an unseasonable sermon of 
nearly one hour's duration, circumscribed by no text, 
and delivered from the table by one of the clerical 
visitors with a view to "improve the occasion." 
In the same Essay, the religious Slang terms for the 
two great divisions of the Established Church, re- 
ceive some explanation. The old-fashioned Hio-h 
Church party, rich and " stagnant," noted for its 
" sluggish mediocrity, hatred of zeal, dread of in- 
novation, abuse of dissent, blundering and languid 
utterance," is called the high and dry; whilst 
the corresponding division, known as the Low 
Church, equally stagnant with the former, but poorer, 
and more lazily inclined (from absence of education \ 
to dissent, receives the nickname of the low and 
SLOW. Already have these terms become so familiar 
that they are shortened, in ordinary conversation, to 
the dry and the SLOW. The so-called " Broad 



Hosted by G00gk 



RELIGIOUS SLANG. CO 

Church," I should remark, is often spoken of as the 

BROAD AND SHALLOW. 

What can be more objectionable than the irreve- 
rent and offensive manner in which many of the 
dissenting ministers continually pronounce the 
names of the Deity, God and Lord. God, instead 
of pronouncing in the plain and beautifully simple 
old English way, G-O-D, they drawl out into 
GORDE or GAUDE; and Lord, instead of speaking 
in the proper way, they desecrate into loard or 
LOERD, — lingering on the u, or the r, as the case may 
be, until an honest hearer feels disgusted, and almost 
inclined to run the gauntlet of beadles and deacons, 
and pull the vulgar preacher from his pulpit. I 
have observed that many young preachers strive hard 
to acquire this peculiar pronunciation, in imitation 
of the older ministers. What can more properly, 
then, be called Slang, or, indeed, the most objec- 
tionable of Slang, than this studious endeavour to 
pronounce the most sacred names in a uniformly 
vulgar and unbecoming manner. If the old- 
fashioned preacher whistled Cant through his nose, 
the modern vulgar reverend whines Slang from the 
more natural organ. These vagaries of speech 
will, perhaps, by an apologist, be termed " pulpit 
peculiarities," and the writer dared to intermeddle 
with a subject that is or should be removed from 
his criticisms. The terms used by the mob towards 
the Church, however illiberal and satirically vulgar, 



Hosted by G00gk 



70 SLANG AMONGST THE LAWYERS. 

are within his province in such an inquiry as the 
present. A clergyman, in vulgar language, is 
spoken of as a choker, a cushion thumper, a 

DOMINE, an EARWIG, a GOSPEL GRINDER, a GRAY 

coat pajison— if he is a lessee of the great tithes, 
one in ten, padre— if spoken of by an Anglo- 
Indian, a rook, a spouter, a white choker, 
or a warming pan rector, if he only holds the 
living pro tempore, or is simply keeping the place 
warm for his successor. If a Tractarian, his outer 
garment is rudely spoken of as a PYGOSTOLE, or 
m.b. (mark of the beast) coat. His pro- 
fession is termed the cloth, and his practice 
tub thumping. Should he belong to the dissent- 
ing body, he is probably styled a pantiler, or a 
PSALM smiter, or, perhaps, a SWADDLER. His 
chapel, too, is spoken of as a schism shop. A 
Roman Catholic, I may remark, is coarsely named 

a BRISKET BEATER. 

Particular as lawyers generally are about the 
meaning of words, they have not prevented an un- 
authorised phraseology from arising, which we may 
term Legal Slang. So forcibly did* this truth im- 
press a late writer, that he wrote in a popular 
journal, " You may hear Slang every day in term 
from barristers in their robes, at every mess-table, 
at every bar-mess, at every college commons, and in 
every club dining-room." Swift, in his Art of 
Polite C oncer sat Ion (p. 15), published a century and 



Hosted by G00gk 



LTTERARY SLANG. 71 

a half ago, states that vardi was the Slang in his 
time for " verdict." A few of the most common 
and well-known terms used out of doors, with re- 
ference to legal matters, are COOK, to hash or 
make up a balance-sheet; dipped, mortgaged ; DUN, 
to solicit payment; fullied, to be "fully com- 
mitted for trial;" land-shark, a sailor's definition 
of a lawyer ; limb of the law, a milder term for 
the same "professional;" MONKEY with ALONG 
tail, a mortgage — phrase used in the well-known 
case for libel, Smith v. Jones; MOUTHPIECE, the 
coster's term for his counsel ; " to go through the 
RING," to take advantage of the Insolvency Act; 
SMASH, to become bankrupt; snipe, an attorney 
with a long bill; and whitewashed, said of any 
debtor who has taken the benefit of the Insolvent 
Act. Lawj^ers, from their connection with the 
police courts, and transactions with persons in every 
grade of society, have ample opportunities for ac- 
quiring street Slang, which in cross -questioning and 
wrangling they frequently avail themselves of. 

It has been said there exists a Literary Slang, 
or " the Slang of Criticism — dramatic, artistic, and 
scientific. Such words as ' aesthetic,' ' transcen- 
dental,' the ' harmonies,' the 'unities,' a 'myth:' 
such phrases as ' an exquisite morceau on the big 
drum,' a ' scholarlike rendering of John the 
Baptist's great toe,' ' keeping harmony,' ' mid- 
dle distance,' ' aerial perspective,' c delicate hand- 



Hosted by Go ogle 



72 "PUNCH" ON SLANG AND SANSCRIT. 

ling,' 'nervous chiaroscuro,' and the like." More 
than one literary journal that I could name 
are fond of employing such terms in their art 
criticisms, but it is questionable, after all, whether 
they are not allowable as the generous inflections 
and bendings of a bountiful language, for the 
purpose of expressing fresh phases of thought, and 
ideas not yet provided with representative words.* 
The well-known and ever-acceptable Punch, with 
his fresh and choice little pictorial bits by Leech, 
often employs a Slang term to give point to a joke, 
or humour to a line of satire. A short time since 
(4th- May, 1859) he gave an original etymology of 
the school-boy-ism SLOG. Slog, said the classical 
and studious Punch, is derived from the Greek 
word SLOGO, to baste, to wallop, to slaughter. And 
it was not long ago that he amused his readers with 
two columns on Slang and Sanscrit : — 

" The allegory which pervades the conversation of all Eastern 
nations," remarked the philosophical Punch, "is tbe foundation 
of Western Slang; and the increased number of students of the 
Oriental languages, especially since Sanscrit and Arabic have 
been made subjrcts for the Indian Civil Service Examinations, 
may have contributed to supply the English language with a 

* " All our newspapers contain more or less colloquial words ; 
in fact, there seems no other way of expressing certain ideas 
connected with passing events of every-day life, with the requi- 
site force and piquancy. In the English newspapers the same 
thing is observable, and certain of them contain more of the 
class denominated Slang words than our own." — Harriett's 
Americanisms, p. x., 1859. 



Hosted by G00gk 



LITERARY SLANG. 16 

large portion of its new dialect. While, however, the spirit of 
allegory conies from the East, there is so great a difference be- 
tween the brevity of Western expression and the more cum- 
brous diction of the Oriental, that the origin of a phrase becomes 
difficult to trace. Thus, for instance, whilst the Turkish mer- 
chant might address his friend somewhat as follows — 'That 
which seems good io my father is to his servant as the perfumed 
breath of the west wind in the calm night of the Arabian 
summer;' the Western negociator observes more briefly, 'all 

SERENE !' " 

But the vulgar term, brick, Punch remarks in 
illustration, 

" must be allowed to be an exception, its Greek derivation 
being universally admitted, corresponding so exactly as it does in 
its rectangular form and compactness to the perfection of man- 
hood, according to the views of Plato and Simonides ; but any 
deviation from the simple expression, in which locality is indi- 
cated,— as, for instance, 'a genuine Bath/ — decidedly breathes 
the Oriental spirit." 

It is singular that what Punch says, unwittingly 
and in humour, respecting the Slang expression, 
BOSH, should be quite true. Bosh, remarks Punch, 
after speaking of it as belonging to the stock of 
words pilfered from the Turks, " is one whose in- 
nate force and beauty the slangographer is reluct- 
antly compelled to admit. It is the only word 
which seems a proper appellation for a great deal 
which we are obliged to hear and to read every 
day of our life." Bosh, nonsense or stupidity, is 
derived from the Gipsey and the Persian. The 
universality of Slang, I may here remark, is proved 



Hosted by G00gk 



74 



LITERARY SLANG. 



by its continual use in the pages of Punch. Who- 
ever thinks, unless belonging to a past generation, 
of asking a friend to explain the stray vulgar words 
employed by the London Charivari ? 

The Athenaeum, the most learned and censor-like 
of all the u weeklies," often indulges in a Slang 
word, when force of expression or a little humour 
is desired, or when the writer wishes to say some- 
thing which is better said in Slang, or so-called 
vulgar speech, than in the authorised language of 
Dr. Johnson or Lindley Murray. It was but the 
other day that a writer in its pages employed an old 
and favourite word, used always when we were 
highly pleased with any article at school, — STUN- 
NING. Bartlett. the compiler of the Dictionary of 
Americanisms, continually cites the Athenaeum as 
using Slang and vulgar expressions ; — but the 
magazine the American refers to is not the excel- 
lent literary journal which is so esteemed at the 
present day, it was a smaller, and now defunct 
" weekly." Many other highly respectable journals 
often use Slang words and phrases. The Times (or, 
in Slang, the Thunderer) frequently employs un- 
authorised terms; and, following a " leader"* of the 
purest and most eloquent English composition, may 
sometimes be seen another " article"* on a totally 

* The terms leader and article can scarcely be called Slang, 
yet it would be desirable to know upon what authority they 
were first employed in their present peculiar sense. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THEATRICAL SLANG. 75 

different subject, containing, perhaps, a score or 
more of exceedingly questionable words. Among 
the words and phrases which may be included under 
the head of Literary Slang are, — BALAAM, matter 
kept constantly in type about monstrous produc- 
tions of nature, to fill up spaces in newspapers ; 
BALAAM box, the term given in Blackivood to the 
depository for rejected articles; and slate, to pelt 
with abuse, or cut up in a review. The Slang 
names given to newspapers are curious; — thus, the 
Morning Advertiser is known as the tap-tub, the 
tizer, and the gin and gospel gazette. The 
Morning Posthas obtained the suggestive soubriquet 
of J E AMES; whilst the Morning Herald has long 
been caricatured as MRS. Harris, and the Standard 

as MRS. GAMP.* 

The Stage, of course, has its Slang — " both be- 
fore and behind the curtain," as a journalist remarks. 
The stage manager is familiarly termed DADDY; 
and an actor by profession, or a " professional," is 
called a PRO. A man who is occasionally hired at 
a trifling remuneration to come upon the stage as 
one of a crowd, or when a number of actors are 
wanted to give effect, is named a StJP, — an abbre- 
viation of " supernumerary." A SURF is a third- 
rate actor who frequently pursues another calling; 

* For some account of the origin of these nicknames see un^er 
Mrs. Harris in the Dictionary. 



Hosted by G00gk 



76 SLANG ON THE STAGE. 

and the band, or orchestra between the pit and the 
stage, is generally spoken of as the menagery. A 
BEN is a benefit; and sal is the Slang abbrevia- 
tion of <( salary." Should no wages be forthcoming 
on the Saturday night, it is said that the GHOST 
doesn't walk. The travelling or provincial thea- 
tricals, who perform in any large room that can 
be rented in a country village, are called barn 
STORMERS. A LENGTH is forty-two lines of any 
dramatic composition; and a RUN is the good or 
bad success of a performance. A saddle is the 
additional charge made by a manager to an actor 
of actress upon their benefit night. To MUG UP is 
to paint one's face, or arrange the person to repre- 
sent a particular character; to CORPSE, or to STICK, 
is to balk, or put the other actors out in their parts 
by forgetting yours. A performance is spoken of 
as either a GOOSER or a screamer, should it be a 
failure or a great success; — if the latter, it is not 
infrequently termed a hit. To star it is to per- 
form as the centre of attraction, with none but 
subordinates and indifferent actors in the same 
performance. The expressive term CLAP-TRAP, 
high-sounding nonsense, is nothing but an ancient 
theatrical term, and signified a trap to catch a 
CLAP by way of applause. " Up amongst the 
GODS," refers to being among the spectators in the 
gallery, — termed in French Slang paradis. 

There exists, too, in the great territory of vulgar 



Hosted by G00gk 



CIVIC SLANG. 77 

speech what may not inappropriately be termed 
Civic Slang. It consists of mercantile and Stock 
Exchange terms, and the Slang of good living and 
wealth. A turkey hung with sausages is facetiously 
styled an alderman in CHAINS; and a half- 
crown, perhaps from its rotundity, is often termed 
an alderman. A bear is a speculator on the 
Exchange; and a BULL, although of another order, 
follows a like profession. There is something very 
humorous and applicable in the slang term lame 
duck, a defaulter in stock -jobbing speculations. 
The allusion to his " waddling out of the Alley," 
as they say, is excellent. Breaking shins, in 
City slang, is borrowing money; a rotten or un- 
sound scheme is spoken of as FISHY; " RIGGING 
the market" means playing tricks with it; and 
STAG was a common term during the railway mania 
for a speculator without capital, a seller of " scrip" 
in " Diddlesex Junction " and other equally safe 
lines. In Lombard -street a monkey is £500, a 
plum £100,000, and a marygold is one million 
sterling- But before I proceed further in a sketch 
of the different kinds of Slang, I cannot do better 
than to speak here of the extraordinary number 
of Cant and Slang terms in use to represent money, 
— from farthings to bank notes the value of for- 
tunes. Her Majesty's coin, collectively or in the 
piece, is insulted by ?io less than one hundred and 
thirty distinct Slang words, from the humble 



Hosted by G00gk 



(o SLANG TERMS FOR MONEY. 

BROWN (a halfpenny) to flimsies, or LONG- 
tailed ONES (bank notes). 

" Money," it has been well remarked, " the bare, 
simple word itself, has a sonorous, significant ring 
in its sound," and might have sufficed, one would 
have imagined, for all ordinary purposes. But a 
vulgar or "fast" society has thought differently, 
and so we have the Slang synonymes beans, 
blunt, (i.e., specie, — not stiff ov rags, bank notes), 
brads, BRASS, bustle, coppers (copper money, 
or mixed pence), chink, chinkers, chips, corks, 

DIBBS, DINARLY, DIMMOCK, DUST, FEATHERS, 
GENT (silver, — from argent\ HADDOCK (a purse of 
money), horse nails, loaver, lour (the oldest 
Cant term for money), MOPUSSES, needful, nob- 
bings (money collected in a hat by street per- 
formers), OCHRE (gold), PEWTER, PALM OIL, 
QUEEN'S pictures, QUIDS, RAGS (bank notes), 

READY, or READY GILT, REDGE (gold), RHINO, 

rowdy, shiners (sovereigns), skin (a purse of 
money), stiff (paper, or bill of acceptance), stuff, 
stumpy, tin (silver), wedge (silver), and yellow- 
boys (sovereigns); — just forty-two vulgar equiva- 
lents for the simple word money. So attentive is 
Slang speech to financial matters, that there are 
seven terms for bad, or " bogus" coin (as our 
friends, the Americans, call it) : a CASE is a coun- 
terfeit five-shilling piece; half a case represents 
half that sum ; GRAYS are halfpence made double 



Hosted by G00gk 



SLANG TERMS FOE MONEY. /9 

for gambling purposes; QUEER-SOFT is counterfeit 
or lead coin; SCHOEEL refers to coated or spurious 
coin ; sheen is bad money of any description ; and 
SINKERS bears the same and not inappropriate 
meaning. Flying the kite, or obtaining money 
on bills and promissory notes, is a curious allusion 
to children tossing about a paper kite; and eaising 
THE WIND is a well-known phrase for procuring 
money by immediate sale, pledging, or a forced 
loan. In winter or in summer any elderly gentle- 
man who may have prospered in life is pronounced 
WARM; whilst an equivalent is immediately at hand 
in the phrase " his pockets are well lined. " Each 
separate piece of money has its own Slang term, and 
often half a score of synonymes. To begin with 
that extremely humble coin, a farthing : first we 
have fadge, then fiddler, then GIG, and lastly 
quartereen. A halfpenny is a brown or a 
madza saltee (Cant), or a mag, or a posh, or a 
rap, — whence the popular phrase, " I don't care a 
rap" The useful and universal penny has for Slang 
equivalents a copper, a saltee (Cant), and a 
WINN. Two-pence is a DEUCE, and three-pence is 
either a thrums or a thrups. Four-pence, or a 
groat, may in vulgar speech be termed a bit, a 
FLAG, or a JOEY". Six-pence is well represented in 
street talk, and some of the Slangisms are very 
comical, for instance, bandy^, bender, cripple, 
and downer; then we have fye-buck, half a 



Hosted by G00gk 



80 OLD SLANG TERMS FOR MONEY. 

HOG, KICK (thus "two and a kick/' or 2s. 6d.), 

LORD OF THE MANOR, PIG, POT (the price of a 

pot of beer), snid, sprat, sow's baby, tanner, 
tester, tizzy, — sixteen vulgar words to one coin. 
Seven-pence being an uncommon amount has only 
one Slang synonyme, setter. The same remark 
applies to eight-pence and nine-pence, the former 
being only represented by otter, and the latter 
by the Cant phrase, nobba-saltee. Ten-pence is 
DACHA-saltee, and elevenpence DACHA-ONE, — 
both Cant expressions. One shilling boasts ten 
Slang equivalents ; thus we have BEONG, bob, 
breakyz-LEG, deaner, GEN (either from argent, 
silver, or the back slang), HOG, peg, stag, teviss, 
and twelve R. Half-a-crown is known as an 

ALDERMAN, HALF A BULL, HALF A TUSHEROON, 

and a madza CAROQN; whilst a croivn piece, or 
Jive shillings, may be called either a bull, or a 

CAROON, Or a CARTWHEEL, or a COACHWHEEL, 

or a THICK-UN, or a tusheroon. The next ad- 
vance in Slang money is ten shillings, or half-a- 
sovereign, which may be either pronounced as HALF 
A BEAN, HALF A COUTER, a MADZA POONA, or 
HALF A QUID. A sovereign, or twenty shillings, is 
a BEAN, CANARY, COUTER, FOONT, GOLDFINCH, 
JAMES, POONA, QUID, a THICK-UN, or a YELLOW- 
BOY. Guineas are nearly obsolete, yet the terms 
NEDS, and half NEDS, are still in use. Bank notes 
are flimsies, long -tailed ones, or soft. A 



Hosted by GoOgk 



CLASSICAL ORIGIN OF SLANG TERMS FOR MONEY. 81 

finuf is a five-pound note. One hundred pounds 
(or any other "round sum") quietly handed over 
as payment for services performed is curiously 
termed "a COOL hundred." Thus ends, with 
several omissions, this long list of Slang terms for 
the coins of the realm, which for copiousness, I 
will engage to say, is not equalled by any other 
vulgar or unauthorised language in Europe. 

The antiquity of many of these Slang names is 
remarkable. Winn was the vulgar term for a 
penny in the days of Queen Elizabeth; and TES- 
TER, a sixpence (formerly a shilling), was the 
correct name in the days of Henry the Eighth. 
The reader, too, will have remarked the fre- 
quency of animals' names as Slang terms for 
money. Little, as a modern writer has remarked, 
do* the persons using these phrases know of their 
remote and somewhat classical origin, which may, 
indeed, be traced to the period antecedent to that 
when monarchs monopolised the surface of coined 
money with their own image and superscriptions. 
They are identical with the very name of money 
among the early Romans, which was pecunia, from 
2)ecits, a flock. The collections of coin dealers 
amply show that the figure of a HOG was anciently 
placed on a small silver coin; and that that of a 
bull decorated larger ones of the same metal. 
These coins were frequently deeply crossed on the 
reverse; this was for the convenience of easily 

G 



Hosted by G00gk 



§2 SHOPKEEPERS' SLANG. 

breaking them into two or more pieces, should the 
bargain for which they were employed require it, 
and the parties making it had no smaller change 
handy to complete the transaction. Thus we find 
that the HALF BULL of the itinerant street seller, or 
" traveller,"* so far from being a phrase of modern 
invention, as is generally supposed, is in point of 
fact referable to an era extremely remote. There 
are many other Cant words directly from a classic 
source, as will be seen in the Dictionary. 

Shopkeepers 1 Slang is, perhaps, the most offensive 
of all Slang. It is not a casual eyesore, as news- 
paper Slang, neither is it an occasional discomfort 
to the ear, as in the case of some vulgar byeword 
of the street; but it is a perpetual nuisance, and 
stares you in the face on tradesmen's invoices, on 
labels in the shop-windows, and placards on the 
hoardings, in posters against the house next to your 
own door — if it happens to be empty for a few 
weeks, — and in bills thrust into your hand, as you 
peaceably walk through the streets. Under your 
doors, and down your area, Slang hand -bills are 
dropped by some pushing tradesman, and for the 
thousandth time you are called upon to learn that 
an ALARMING- SACRIFICE is taking place in the 
next street, that prices are DOWN again, that in 
consequence of some other tradesman not driving 
a roaring trade, being in fact SOLD up, and for 
the time being a resident in burdon's hotel 
* See Dictionary. 



Hosted by G00gk 



SLANG IN THE WORKSHOP. 83 

(Whitecross-street Prison), the PUSHING- tradesman 
wishes to sell out at awfully low prices, " to 
the kind patrons, and numerous customers/' &c. &c, 
"that have on every occasion," &c. &c. In this 
Slang any occupation or calling is termed a LINE, — 
thus the "Building-LINE." A tailor usurps to 
himself a good deal of Slang. Amongst operatives 
he is called a snip, or a steel bar driver; by 
the world, a ninth part of a man; and by the 
young collegian, or " fast " man, a sufferer. If 
he takes army contracts, it is SANK WORK; if he 
is a SLOP tailor, he is a SPRINGER UP, and his 
garments are BLOWN together. Perquisites with 
him are spiffs, and remnants of cloth, peaking. 
The percentage he allows to his assistants (or 
counter jumpers) on the sale of old-fashioned 
articles, is termed tinge. If he pays his workmen 
in goods, or gives them tickets upon other tradesmen, 
with whom he shares the profit, he is soon known 
as a TOMMY MASTER. If his business succeeds, it 
takes ; if neglected, it becomes shaky, and goes 
TO POT ; if he is deceived by a creditor (a not by 
any means unusual circumstance) he is let in, or, 
as it is sometimes varied, taken in. I need 
scarcely remark that any credit he may give is 
termed TICK. 

Operatives or Workmen's Slang, in quality, is but 
slightly removed from tradesmen's Slang. When 
belonging to the same shop or factory, they graft 

G 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



S4 SLANG IN THE WORKSHOP. 

there, and are brother chips. They generally 
dine at slap bang shops, and are often paid at 
tommy shops. At the nearest pub, or public- 
house, they generally have a SCORE CHALKED UP 
against them, which has to be wiped off regularly 
on the Saturday night. When out of work, they 
borrow a word from the flunkey vocabulary, and 
describe themselves as being out of collar. 
They term each other flints and dungs, if they 
are ''society " or " non-society" men. Their salary 
is a screw, and to be discharged is to get the 
SACK. When they quit work, they KNOCK OFF ; 
and when out of employ, they ask if any hands 
are wanted. Fat is the vulgar synonyme for 
perquisites; elbow-grease signifies labour; and 
saint MONDAY is the favourite day of the week. 
Names of animals figure plentifully in the work- 
man's vocabulary ; thus we have GOOSE, a tailor's 
smoothing iron; SHEEP's-FOOT, an iron hammer; 
SOW, a receptacle for molten iron, whilst the metal 
poured from it is termed pig. I have often 
thought that many of the Slang terms for money 
originally came from the workshop, thus — brads, 
from the ironmonger; CHIPS, from the carpenter; 
dust, from the goldsmith; feathers, from the 
upholsterer; HORSE nails, from the farrier; HAD- 
DOCK, from the fishmonger ; and tanner, from the 
leather-dresser. The subject is curious. Allow me 
to call the attention of numismatists to it. 



Hosted by G00gk 



SLANG APOLOGIES FOR OATHS. 85 

There yet remain several distinct divisions of 
Slang to be examined; — the Slang of the stable, or 
jockey Slang; the Slang of the prize ring ; the Slang 
of servitude, or flunk eydom ; vulgar, or street Slang; 
the Slang of softened oaths; and the Slang of 
intoxication. I shall only examine the last two. 
If society, as has been remarked, is a sham, from 
the vulgar foundation of commonalty to the crown- 
ing summit of royalty, especially do we perceive 
the justness of the remark in the Slang makeshifts 
for oaths, and sham exclamations for passion and 
temper. These apologies for feeling are a disgrace 
to our vernacular, although it is some satisfaction to 
know that they serve the purpose of reducing the 
stock of national profanity. " You be blowed," 
or " I'll be blowed if," &c., is an exclamation 
often heard in the streets. Blazes, or "like 
BLAZES," came probably from the army. Blast, 
too, although in general vulgar use, may have had 
a like origin; so may the phrase, " I wish I may be 
SHOT, if," &c. Blow me tight, is a very windy 
and common exclamation. The same may be said 
of STRIKE ME LUCKY, NEVER TRUST ME, and 
SO HELP ME DAVY; the latter derived from the 
truer old phrase, i'll take my davy On't, i.e., 
my affidavit, DAVY being a corruption of that word. 

By^GOLLY, GOL DARN IT, and SO HELP ME BOB, 

are evident shams for profane oaths. Nation is 
but a softening of damnation; and OD, whether 



Hosted by G00gk 



SG SLANG SWEARING. 

used in OD DRAT IT, or Od's blood, is but an 
apology for the name of the Deity. The Irish 
phrase, bad scran to tee! is equivalent to wish- 
ing a person bad food. " I'm sniggered if you 
will," and <l I'm jiggered," are other stupid forms 
of mild swearing, — fearful of committing an open 
profanity, yet slyly nibbling at the sin. Both 
DEUCE and DICKENS are vulgar old synonymes for 
the devil; and ZOUNDS is an abbreviation of god's 
WOUNDS, — a very ancient catholic oath. 

In a casual survey of the territory of Slang, it is 
curious to observe how well represented are the 
familiar wants and failings of life. First, there's 
money, with one hundred and twenty Slang terms 
and synonymes; then comes drink, from small 
beer to champagne; and next, as a very natural 
sequence, intoxication, and fuddlement generally, 
with some half a hundred vulgar terms, graduating 
the scale of drunkenness from a slight inebriation, 
to the soaky state of gutterdom and stretcherdom, 
— I pray the reader to forgive the expressions. 
The Slang synonymes for mild intoxication are 
certainly very choice, — they are BEERY, BEMUSED, 
BOOZY, BOSKY, BUFFY, CORNED, EOGGY, FOU, 
FRESH, HAZY, ELEVATED, KISKY, LUSHY, 
MOONY, MUGGY, MUZZY, ON, SCREWED, STEWED, 

tight, and winey. A higher or more intense 
state of beastliness is represented by the expres- 
sions, PODGY, BEARGERED, BLUED, CUT, PRIMED, 



Hosted by G00gk 



SLANG TERMS FOR DRUNKENNESS. 87 

LUMPY, PLOUGHED, MUDDLED, OBFUSCATED, 
SWIPEY, THREE SHEETS IN THE WIND, and TOP- 
HEAVY. But the climax of fuddlement is only 
obtained when the DISGUISED individual can't 
see A hole IN A ladder, or when he is all 

MOPS AND BROOMS, or OFF HIS NUT, or with his 
MAIN-BRACE WELL SPLICED, or with the SUN IN 

his eyes, or when he has lapped the gutter, 
and got the gravel rash, or on the ran-tan, or 
on the re-raw, or when he is sewed up, or 
regularly SCAMMERED, — then, and not till then, 
is he entitled in vulgar society to the title of 
lushington, or recommended to put in the 

PIN. 



Hosted by G00gk 



Hosted by GoOgle 



DICTIONARY OF MODERN 

SLANG, CANT, & VULGAE WORDS ; 

MANY WITH THEIR ETYMOLOGIES TRACED. 



A 1, first rate, the very best ; " she's a prime girl she is ; she is 
A 1." — Sam SUcfc. The highest classification of ships at 
Lloyd's ; common term in the United States, also at Liver- 
pool and other English seaports. Another, even more 
intensitive form, is "first-class, letter A, No. 1." 

ABOUT RIGHT, "to do the thing about right," i.e., to do it 
properly, soundly, correctly ; " he guv it 'im about right," 
i.e., he beat him severely. 

ABRAM-SHAM, or sham- Abraham, to feign sickness or distress. 
From abram man, the ancient cant term for a begging 
impostor, or one who pretended to have been mad. — Bur- 
ton's Anatomy of Melancholy, part i., sec. 2, vol. i., p. 360. 
When Abraham Newland was Cashier of the Bank of Eng- 
land, and signed their notes, it was sung ; — 

4 ' I have heard people say 
That sham Abraham you may, 
But you mustn't sham Abraham Newland." 

ABSQUATULATE, to run away, or abscond ; a hybrid American 
expression, from the Latin ab, and "squat," to settle. 

ADAM'S ALE, water. — English. The Scotch term is adam's wine. 

AGGER AW ATORS (corruption of Aggravators), the greasy 
locks of hair in vogue among costermongers and other 
street folk, worn twisted from the temple back towards 



Hosted by G00gk 



90 



A DICTIONARY OF 



the ear. They are also, from a supposed resemblance in 
form, termed Newgate knockers, which see.—Sala's Gas- 
light, &c. 

ALDERMAN", a half-crown— possibly from its rotundity. 

ALDERMAN, a turkey. 

ALDERMAN IN CHAINS, a turkey hung with sausages. 

ALL OF A HUGH! all on one side, or with a thump; the 
word HUGH being pronounced with a grunt.— Suffolk. 

ALL MY EYE, answer of astonishment to an improbable story ; 
all my eye and betty martin, a vulgar phrase with similar 
meaning, said to be the commencement of a Popish prayer 
to St. Martin, " Oh mihi, beate Martine," and fallen into 
discredit at the Reformation. 

ALL-OVERISH, neither sick nor well, the premonitory symp- 
toms of illness. 

ALL-ROUNDERS, the fashionable shirt collars of the present 
time worn meeting in front. 

ALL-SERENE, an ejaculation of acquiescence. 

ALLS, tap-droppings, refuse spirits sold at a cheap rate in gin- 
palaces. — £eeLOVEAGE. 

ALL- THERE, in strict fashion, first-rate, "up to the mark;" a 
vulgar person would speak of a spruce, showily-dressed 
female as being all- there. An artizan would use the 
same phrase to express the capabilities of a skilful fellow 
workman. 

ALL TO PIECES, utterly, excessively ; " he beat him all to 

pieces," i.e., excelled or surpassed him exceedingly. 
ALL TO SMASH, or gone to pieces, bankrupt, or • smashed to 

pieces. — Somersetshire. 
ALMIGHTY DOLLAR, an American expression for the " power 

of money," first introduced by Washington Irving in 1837. 
AN'T, or ain't, the vulgar abbreviation of "am not/' or "are 

not." 

ANOINTING, a good beating. 

ANT HOW, in any way, or at any rate, bad ; " he went on any 

how," i.e., badly or indifferently, 
APPLE CART, "down with his apple cart," i.e., upset him. — 

North. 
APPLE PIE ORDER, in exact or very nice order. 
AREA-SNTEAK, a boy thief who commits depredations upon 

kitchens and cellars. — See crow. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 91 

ARGOT, a term used amongst London thieves for their secret 
or cant language. French term for slang. 

ARTICLE, a man or boy, derisive term. 

ARY, corruption of ever a, e'er a; art one, e'er a one. 

ATTACK, to carve, or commence operations on ; "attack that 
beef, and oblige !" 

ATTIC, the head ; " queer in the attic," intoxicated.— Pugilistic. 

AUNT-SALLY, a favourite game on race-courses and at fairs, 
consisting of a wooden head mounted on a stick, firmly 
fixed in the ground ; in the nose of which, or rather in that 
part of the facial arrangement of aunt sally which is 
generally considered incomplete without a nasal projection, a 
tobacco pipe is inserted. The fun consists in standing at a 
distance and demolishing aunt sally's pipe-clay projection 
with short bludgeons,, very similar to the half of a broom- 
handle. The Duke of Beaufort is a " crack hand" at smash- 
ing pipe noses, and his performances two years ago on 
Brighton race-course are yet fresh in remembrance. The 
noble Duke, in the summer months, frequently drives the 
old London and Brighton four-horse mail coach, " Age" — a 
whim' singular enough now, but common forty years ago." 

AUTUMN, a slang term for an execution by hanging. When 
the drop was introduced instead of the old gallows, cart, and 
ladder, and a man was for the first time " turned-off" in 
the present fashion, the mob were so pleased with the 
invention that they spoke of the operation as at autumn, 
or the fall of the leaf (sc. the drop), with the man 
about to be hung. 

AVAST, a sailor's phrase for stop, shut up, go away, — appa- 
rently connected with the old cant, bynge a waste. 

AWAKE, or fly, knowing, thoroughly understanding, not 
ignorant of. The phrase wide awake carries the same 
meaning in ordinary conversation. 

AWFUL (or, with the Cockneys, orful), a senseless expletive, 
used to intensify a description of anything good or bad ; 
"what an awful fine woman!" i.e., how handsome, or 
showy ! 

AXE, to ask. — Saxon, acsian. 

BABES, the lowest order of knock-outs (which see), who are 
prevailed upon not to give opposing biddings at auctions, in 
consideration of their receiving a small sum (from one 
shilling to half-a-crown), and a certain quantity of beer. 
Babes exist in Baltimore, U.S., where they are known as 
blackguards and " rowdies." 



Hosted by G00gk 



92 A DICTIONARY OF 

BACK JUMP, a back window. 

BACK SLANG IT, to go out the back way. 

BACK OUT, to retreat from a difficulty ; the reverse of go 
ahead. Metaphor borrowed from the stables. 

BACON", " to save one's bacon," to escape. 

BAD, "to go to the bad," to deteriorate in character, be ruined. 
Virgil has an exactly similar phrase, in pejus mere. 

BAGMAN, a commercial traveller. 

BAGS, trowsers. Trowsers of an extensive pattern, or exag- 
gerated fashionable cut, have lately been termed howling- 
bags, but only when the style has been very "loud." The 
word is probably an abbreviation for b-mbags. " To have 
the bags off," to be of age and one's own master, to have 
plenty of money. 

BAKE, "he's only half baked," i.e., soft, inexperienced. 

BAKER'S DOZEN. This consists of thirteen or fourteen ; the 
surplus number, called the inbread, being thrown in for 
fear of incurring the penalty for short weight. To " give a 
man a baker's dozen," in a slang sense, means to give him 
an extra good beating or pummelling. 

BALAAM, printers' slang for matter kept in type about mon- 
strous productions of nature, &c, to fill up spaces in news- 
papers that would otherwise be vacant. The term balaam- 
box has long been used in Blackwood as the name of the 
depository for rejected articles. 

BALL, prison allowance, viz., six ounces of meat. 

BALLYRAG, to scold vehemently, to swindle one out of his 
money by intimidation and sheer abuse, as alleged in a late 
cab case {Evans v. Robinson). 

BALMY, insane. 

BAMBOOZLE, to deceive, make fun of, or cheat a person; 
abbreviated to bam, which is used also as a substantive, 
a deception, a sham, a "sell." Swift says bamboozle was 
invented by a nobleman in the reign of Charles II.; but 
this I conceive to be an error. The probability is that a 
nobleman first used it in polite society. The term is de- 
rived from the Gipseys. 

BANDED, hungry. 

BANDY, or cripple, a sixpence, so called from this coin being • 
generally bent or crooked; old term for flimsy or bad 
cloth, temp. Q. Elizabeth. 

BANG, to excel or surpass; banging, great or thumping. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 93 

BANG-UP, first-rate. 

BANTLING, a child ; stated in Bacchus and Venus, 1737, and 

by Grose, to be a cant term. 
BANYAN-DAY, a day on which no meat is served out for 

rations ; probably derived from the banians, a Hindoo 

caste, who abstain from animal food. — Sea. 
BAR, or barring, excepting ; in common use in the betting- 
ring; " I bet against the field bar two." The Irish use of 

b&rrin' is very similar. 
BARKER, a man employed to cry at the doors of " gaffs," shows, 

and puffing shops, to entice people inside. 
BARKING IRONS, pistols. 

BARNACLES, a pair of spectacles ; corruption of binoculi ? 
BARNEY, a lark, spree, rough enjoyment ; " get up a barney," 

to have a "lark." 
BARNEY, a mob, a crowd. 
BARN-STORMERS, theatrical performers who travel the 

country and act in barns, selecting short and frantic pieces 

to suit the rustic taste. — Theatrical. 
BARRIKIN, jargon, speech, or discourse; "we can't tumble to 

that barrikin," i.e., we don't understand what he says. 

Miege calls it " a sort of stuff." 

BASH, to beat, thrash; "bashing a donna," beating a woman; 
originally a provincial word, and chiefly applied to the 
practice of beating walnut trees, when in bud, with long 
poles, to increase their productiveness. Hence the West 
country proverb — 

"A woman, a whelp, and a walnut tree, 
The more you bash 'em, the better they be." 

BAT, " on his own bat," on his own account. — See hook. 

BATS, a pair of bad boots. 

BATTER, " on the batter," literally "on the streets," or given 
up to roistering and debauchery. 

BATTLES, the students' term at Oxford for rations.. At Cam- 
bridge, commons. 

BAWDYKEN, a brothel.— Sec ken. 

BAZAAR, a shop or counter. Gvpsey and Hindoo, a market. 

BEAK, a magistrate, jucLze, or policeman ; " baffling the beak," 
to get remanded. Ancient cant, beck. Saxon, beag, a 
necklace or gold collar — emblem of authority. Sir John 
Fielding was called the blind -beak in the last century 



Hosted by G00gk 



94 A DICTIONARY OF 

Query, if connected with the Italian becco, which means a 
(bird's) beak, and also a blockhead. 

BEAKER-HUNTER, a stealer of poultry. 

BEANS, money ; " a haddock of beans," a purse of money ; 
formerly bean meant a guinea; French, biens, property; 
also used as a synonyme for brick, which see. 

BEAR, one who contracts to deliver or sell a certain quantity of 
stock in the public funds on a forthcoming day at a stated 
place, but who does not possess it, trusting to a decline in 
public securities to enable him to fulfil the agreement and 
realise a profit. — See bull. Both words are slang terms on 
the Stock Exchange, and are frequently used in the business 
columns of newspapers. 

"He who sells that of which he is not possessed is proverbially 
said to sell the skin before he has caught the beau. It was the 
practice of stock-jobbers, in the year 1720, to enter into a contract 
for transferring- South Sea Stock at a future time for a certain 
price ; but be who contracted to sell had frequently no stock to 
transfer, nor did be who bought intend to receive any in consequence 
of his bargain ; the seller was, therefore, called a beau, in allusion 
to the proverb, and the buyer a bull, perhaps only as a similar 
distinction. The contract was merely a wager, to be determined by 
the rise or fall of stock ; if it rose, the seller paid the difference to 
the buyer, proportioned to the sum determined by the same com- 
putation to the seller."— Dr. Warton on Pope. 

BEARGERED, to be drunk. 

BEAT, or beat-hollow, to surpass or excel. 

BEAT, the allotted range traversed by a policeman on duty. 

BEAT-OUT, dead-beat, tired or fagged. 

BEATER-CASES, boots : Nearly obsolete. 

BEAVER, old street term for a hat; goss is the modern word, 
beaver, except in the country, having fallen into disuse. 

BE-BLOWED, a windy exclamation equivalent to an oath.— See 
blow-me. 

BED-POST, "in the twinkling of a bed-post," in a moment, or 
very quickly. Originally bed-staff, a stick placed ver- 
tically in the frame of a bed to keep the bedding in its 
place.— ShcCdwelVs Virtuoso, 1676, act I, scene 1. This was 
used sometimes as a defensive weapon. 

BEE, "to have a bee in one's bonnet,'' i.e., to be not exactly 
sane. 

BEERY, intoxicated, or fuddled with beer. 

BEESWAX, poor soft cheese. 

BEETLE-CRUSHERS, or sqtjashers, large flat feet. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 95 

BELCHER, a kind of handkerchief.— See billy. 

BELL, a song. 

BELLOWS, the lungs. 

BELLOWS ED, or lagged, transported. 

BELLOWS-TO-MEND, out of breath. 

BELLY-TIMBER, food, or "grub." 

BELLY- VENGEANCE, small sour beer, apt to cause gastralgia. 

BEMUSE, to fuddle one's self with drink, " bemusing himself 

with beer," &c. — Sala's Gas-light and Day-light, p. 308. 
BEN, a benefit. — Theatrical. 
BEND, "that's above my bend/' 'i.e., beyond my power, too 

expensive, or too difficult for me to perform. 
BENDER, a sixpence, — from its liability to bend. 
BENDER, the arm ; " over the bender," synonymous with 

"over the left." — See over, Also an ironical exclamation 

similar to walker, 
BENE, good. — Ancient cant ; benar was the comparative. — See 

bone. Latin. 
BENJAMIN, a coat. Foraierly termed a Joseph, in allusion, 

perhaps, to Joseph's coat of many colours.— See upper- 
benjamin. 
BENJY, a waistcoat. 
BEONG, a shilling. — See saltee. 
BESTER, a low betting cheat. 

BESTING, excelling, cheating. Bested, taken in, or defrauded. 
BETTER, more ; " how far is it to town ?" " oh, better 'n a 

mile. — Saxon and Old English, now a vulgarism. 
BETTY, a skeleton key, or picklock. — Old cant. 
B. FLATS, bugs. 
BIBLE CARRIER, a person who sells songs without singing 

them. 
BIG, "to look big," to assume an inflated dress, or manner; "to 

talk big," i c, boastingly, or with an " extensive" air. 
BIG-HOUSE, the work-house. 
BILBO, a sword; abbrev. of bilboa blade. Spanish swords 

were anciently very celebrated, especially those of Toledo, 

Bilboa, &c. 
BILK, a cheat, or a swindler. Formerly in frequent use, now 

confined to the streets, where it is very general. Gothic, 



Hosted by G00gk 



96 A DICTIONARY OF 

BILK, to defraud, or obtain goods, &c. without paying for 
them; " to bilk the schoolmaster," to get information or 
experience without paying for it. 

BILLINGSGATE (when applied to speech), foul and coarse 
language. Not many years since, one of the London noto- 
rieties was to hear the fishwomen at Billingsgate abuse each 
other. The anecdote of Dr. Johnson and the Billingsgate 
virago is well known. 

BILLY, a silk pocket handkerchief. — Scotch. — See wipe. 

*#* A list of the slang terms descriptive of the various 
patterns of handkerchiefs, pocket and neck, is here sub- 
joined: — 

Belcher, close striped pattern, yellow silk, and inter- 
mixed with white and a littJe black ; named from 
the pugilist, Jim Belcher. 
Bird's eye wipe, diamond spots. 
Blood red fancy, red. 
Blue billy, blue ground with white spots. 
Cream fancy, any pattern on a white ground. 
Green king's man, any pattern on a green ground. 
Randal's man, green, with white spots; named after 

Jack Randal, pugilist. 
"Water's man, sky coloured. 
Yellow fancy, yellow, with white spots. 
Yellow man, all yellow. 
BILLY-BARLOW, a street clown ; sometimes termed a jim 
crow, or saltimbanco,— so called from the hero of a slang 
song. — Bulwers Paxil Clifford. 
BILLY-HUNTING, buying old metal. 
BIRD-CAGE, a four-wheeled cab. 

BIT, fourpence ; in America 124- cents is called a bit, and a 
defaced 20 cent piece is termed a long bit. A bit is the 
smallest coin in Jamaica, equal to 6d. 
BIT, a purse, or any sum of money. 
BIT- FAKER, or turner out, a coiner of bad money. 
BITCH, tea; c 'a bitch party," a tea-drinking. — University. 
BITE, a cheat ; " a Yorkshire bite," a cheating fellow from that 
county. — North; also old slang, used by Pope. Swift says 
it originated with a nobleman iu his day. 
BITE, to cheat; "to be bitten," to be taken in or imposed 

upon. Originally a Gipsey term. — See Bacchus and Venus. 
BIVVY, or gatter, beer ; " shant of bivvy," a pot, or quart of 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 97 



beer. In Suffolk, tbe afternoon refreshment of reapers is 
called bever. It is also an old English term. 
" He is none of those same ordinary eaters, that will devour three break- 
fasts, and as many dinners, without any prejudice to their betebs, 
drinkings, or suppers." — Beaumont and, Fletcher's Woman Hater 
1—3. 

Both words are probably from the Italian, bevere, here. Latin, 

bibere. English, beverage. 
BLACK AND WHITE, handwriting. 
BLACKBERRY-SWAGGER, a person who hawks tapes, boot 

laces, &c. 
BLACK- LEG, a rascal, swindler, or card cheat. 
BLACK-SHEEP, a "bad lot," " mauvais sujet ;" also a 

workman who refuses to join in a strike. 
BLACK-STRAP, port wine. 
BL&DE, a man — in ancient times tbe term for a soldier; 

"knowing blade," a wide awake, sharp, or cunning man. 

BLACKGUARD, a low, or dirty fellow. 

"A cant word amongst the vulgar, by which is implied a dirty fellow 
of the meanest kind. Dr. Johnson says, and he cites only the 
modern authority of Swift. But the introduction of this word into 
our language belongs not to the vulgar, and is more than a cen- 
tury prior to the time of Swift. Mr. Malone agrees with me in 
exhibiting the two first of the following examples. The black-guard 
is evidently designed to imply a fit attendant on the devil. Mr. 
Gilford, however, in his late edition of Ben Jonson's works, as- 
signs an origin of the name different from what the old examples 
which I have cited seem to countenance. It has been formed, 
he says, from those 'mean and ditty dependants, in great houses, 
who were selected to carry coals to the kitchen, halls, &c. To this 
smutty regiment, who attended the progresses, and rode in the 
carts with the pots and kettles, which, with every other article of 
furniture, were then moved from palace to palace, the people, iu 
derision, gave the name of block guards; a term since become 
sufficiently familiar, and never properly explained.' — BenJonson, 
ii. 1(J9, vii*. 250," — Todd's Johnson's Dictionary. 

BLARNEY, flattery, exaggeration. — Hiberiiicism. 

BLAST, to curse. 

BLAZES, " like blazes," furious or desperate, alow comparison. 

BLEST, a vow ; " blest if I'll do it," i.e., I am determined not 

to do it ; euphemism for curst. 
BLEED, to victimise, or extract money from a person, to spunge 

on, to make suffer vindictively. 
BLEW, or blow, to inform, or peach. 
BLEWED, got rid of, disposed of, spent; " I blewed all my 

blunt last night," I spent all my money. 

H 



Hosted by G00gk 



98 A DICTIONARY OF 

BLIND, a pretence, or make believe. 

BLIND-HOOKEY, a gambling game at cards. 

BLINKER, a blackened eye.— Norwich slang. 

BLINK FENCER, a person who sells spectacles. 

BLOAK, or bloke, a man ; "the bloak with a jasey," the man 
with a wig, i.e., the Judge. Gipsey aud Hindoo, loke. 
North, bloacher, any large animal. 

BLOB (from blab), to talk. Beggars are of two kinds,— those 
who screeve (introduce themselves with a fakement, or 
false document), and those who blob, or state their case in 
their own truly " unvarnished " language. 

BLOCK, the head. 

BLOCK ORNAMENTS, the small dark coloured pieces of meat 
exposed on the cheap butchers' blocks or counters, — debate- 
able points to all the sharp visaged argumentative old 
women in low neighbourhoods. 

BLOOD, a fast or high-mettled man. Nearly obsolete in the 
sense in which it was used iu George the Fourth's time. 

BLOOD-RED FANCY, a kind of handkerchief worn by pugilists 
and frequenters of prize fights. — See billy. 

BLOODY -JEMMY, a sheep's head. — See sanguinary james. 

BLOW, to expose, or inform; "blow the gaff," to inform 
against a person. In America, to blow is slang for to taunt. 

BLOW A CLOUD, to smoke a cigar or pipe — a phrase in use 
two centuries ago. 

BLOW ME, or blow me tight, a vow, a ridiculous and unmean- 
ing ejaculation, inferring an appeal to the ejaculator; "I'm 
blowed if you will " is a common expression among the 
lower orders; "blow me up" was the term a century ago. 
— See Parker's Adventures, 1781. 

BLOW OUT, or tuck in, a feast. 

BLOW UP, to make a noise, or scold ; formerly a cant expres- 
sion used amongst thieves, now a recognised and respectable 
phrase. Blowing up, a jobation, a scolding. 

BLOWEN, a showy or flaunting prostitute, a thief's paramour. 
In Wilis, a blowen is a blossom. Germ, bluhen, to bloom. 

" du bi'dhende Madcken viel schorie Willkomm !" — German Song. 
Possibly, however, the street term blowen may mean one 
whose reputation has been blown upon, or damaged. 

BLOWER, a girl; a contemptuous name in opposition to jomer. 

BLUBBER, to cry in a childish manner. — Ancient. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 99 

BLUDGERS, low thieves, who use violence. 

BLUE, a policeman; ' ' disguised in blue and liquor."— Boots at 
the Swan. 

BLUE, or blew, to pawn or pledge. 

-BLUE, confounded or surprised ; :c to look blue/' to be aston- 
ished or disappointed. 

BLUE BILLY, the handkerchief (blue ground with white spots) 
worn and used at prize fights. Before a set to, it is common 
to take it from the neck and tie it round the ] eg as a garter, 
or round the waist, to " keep in the wind." Also, the refuse 
ammoniacal lime from gas factories. 

BLUE BLANKET, a rough over coat made of coarse pilot cloth. 

BLUE-BOTTLE, a policeman. It is singular that this well 
known slang term for a London constable should have been 
used by Shakespere. In part ii. of King Henry IV., act v., 
scene 4, Doll Tearsheet calls the beadle, who is dragging 
her in, a " thin man in a censer, a blue-bottle rogue." 

BLUED, or blewed, tipsey or drunk. 

BLUE DEVILS, the apparitions supposed to be seen by habitual 

drunkards. 
BLUE MOON, an unlimited period. 
BLUE MURDER, a desperate or alarming cry. French, hort- 

bleu. 
BLUE KUIN, gin. 
BLUE-PIGEON FLYERS, journeymen plumbers, glaziers, and 

others, who, under the plea of repairing houses, strip off the 

lead, and make way with it. Sometimes they get off with 

it by wrapping it round their bodies. 
BLUES, a fit of despondency.— See blue devils. 
BLUEY, lead. German, blei. 
BLUFF, an excuse. ? 

BLUFF, to turn aside, stop, or excuse. 
BLUNT, money. It has been said that this term is from the 

French blond, sandy or golden colour, and that a parallel 

may be found in brown ol- browns, the slang for half-pence. 

The etymology seems far fetched, however. 
BLURT OUT, to speak from impulse, and without reflection.— 

ShaJcespere. #4 

BOB, a shilling. Formerly bobstick, which may haye be$i±&& 

original. \ \ •* 

H 1' 



Hosted by G00gk 



100 A DICTIONARY OF 

BOB, <l s'help my bob/' a street oath, equivalent to "so help me 
God." Other words are used in street language for a simi- 
larly evasive purpose, i.e., cat, greens, tatur, &c, all 
equally profane and disgusting. 

BOBBISH, very well, clever, spruce ; " how are you doing ?" 
14 oh ! pretty bobbish." — Old. 

BOBBY, a policeman. Both bobby and peeler were nick- 
names given to the new police, in allusion to the christian 
and surnames of tue late Sir Robert Peel, who was the prime 
mover in effecting their introduction and improvement. 
The term bobby is, however, older than the Saturday 
Reviewer, iu his childish and petulant remarks, imagines. 
The official square-keeper, who is always armed with a cane 
to drive away idle and disorderly urchins, has, time out of 
mind, been called by the said urchins, bobby the Beadle. 
Bobby is also, I may remark, an old English word for strik- 
ing or hitting, a quality not unknown to policemen. — See 
HallivjelVs Dictionary. 

BODMINTON, blood.— Pugilistic. 

BODY-SNATCHERS, bailiffs and runners : snatch, the trick 
by which the bailiff captures the delinquent. 

BODY-SNATCHERS, cat stealers. 

BOG or bog-house, a water-closet. — School term. In the Inns 
of Court, I am informed, this term is very common. 

BOG-TROTTER, satirical name for an Irishman. — Miege. Cam- 
den, however, speaking of the " debateable land " on the 
borders of England and Scotland, says "both these dales 
breed notable bog-trotters." 

BOILERS, the slang name given to the New Kensington Museum 
and School of Art, in allusion to the peculiar form of the 
buildings, and the fact of their being mainly composed of, 
and covered with, sheet iron. — See pepper-boxes. 

BOLT, to run a,way, decamp, or abscond. 

BOLT, to swallow without chewing. 

BONE, good, excellent. 0, the vagabond's hieroglyphic for 
bone, or good, chalked by them on houses and street 
corners, as a hint to succeeding beggars. French, bon. 

BONE, to steal or pilfer. Boned, seized, apprehended.— Old. 

BONE-GRUBBERS, persons who hunt dust-holes, gutters, and 

••• all likely spots for refuse bones, which they sell at the rag- 

y •* gh</ps; or to the bone-grinders. 

BOHE^fcKER, a footman. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 101 

BONES, dice ; also called st. Hugh's bones. 

BONES, "he made no bones of it," he did oot hesitate, i.e., 
undertook and finished the work without difficult} 7 , " found 
no bones ia the jelly." — Ancient, vide Gotgrave. 

BONNET, a gambling cheat. " A man who sits at a gaming- 
table, and appears to be playing against the table ; when a 
stranger enters, the bonnet generally wins."— Times, Nov. 
17, 1856. Also, a pretence, or make-believe, a sham bidder 
at auctions. 

BONNET, to strike a man's cap or hat over his eyes and nose. 

BONNETTER, one who induces another to gamble. 

BOOK, an arraugement of bets for and against, chronicled in a 
pocket-book made for that purpose; "making a book upon 
it," common phrase to denote the general arraugement of a 
person's bets on a race. " That does not suit my book," i.e., 
does not accord with my other arrangements. Shakespere 
uses book in the sense of " a paper of conditions." 

BOOM, " to tip one's boom off," to be off, or start in a certain 
direction. — Sea. 

BOOKED, caught, fixed, disposed of.— Term in Book-keeping. 

BOOZE, drink. Ancient cant, bowse. 

BOOZE, to drink, or more properly, to use another slang term, 
to "lush," viz., to drink continually, until drunk, or nearly 
so. The term is an old one. Harman, in Queen Elizabeth's 
days, speaks of " bousing (or boozing) and belly-cheere." 
The term was good English in the fourteenth century, and 
comes from the Dutch, butzen, to tipple. 

BOOZE, or suok-casa, a public-house. 

BOOZING-KEN, a beer-shop, a low public house.— Ancient. 

BOOZY, intoxicated or fuddled. 

BORE, a troublesome friend or acquaintance, a nuisance, any- 
thing which wearies or annoys. The Gradus ad Gantabrigiam 
suggests the derivation of bore from the Greek, Bapoff, a 
burden. Shahespere uses it, King Henry VIII., i., 1 — 



• at this instant 



He bores me with some trick." 

Grose speaks of this word as being much in fashion about 
the year 1780-81, and states that it vanished of a sudden, 
without leaving a trace behind. Not so, burly Grose, the 
term is still in favour, and is as piquant and expressive as 
ever. Of the modern sense of the word bore, the Prince 



Hosted by G00gk 



102 A DICTIONARY OF 



Consort made an amusing and effective use in his masterly 
address to the British Association, at Aberdeen, September 
14, 1859. He said (as reported by the Times) : — 

" I will not weary you by further examples, with which most of you 
are better acquainted than I am myself, but merely express my 
satisfaction that there should exist bodies of men who will bring 
the well-considered and understood wants of science betorethe 
public and the Government, who will even hand round the begging- 
box, and expose themselves to refusals and rebuffs, to which all 
beggars all liable, with the certainty besides of being considered 
great bores. Please to recollect that this species of " bore " is a 
most useful animal, well adapted for the ends for which nature 
intended him. He alone, by constantly returning to the charge, 
and repeating the same truths and the same requests, succeeds in 
awakening attention to the cause which he advocates, and obtains 
that hearing which is granted him at last for self-protection, as 
the minor evil compared to his importunity, but which is requisite 
to make his cause understood." 

BOSH, nonsense, stupidity. — Gipsey and Persian. Also pure 
Turkish, bosh lakerdi, empty talk. A person, in the 
Saturday Review, has stated that bosh is coeval with Morier's 
novel, Hadji Babi, which was published in 1828 ; but this is 
a blunder. The term was used in this country as early as 
1760, and may be found in the Student, vol. ii., p. 217. 

BOSH, a fiddle. 

BOSH-FAKER, a violin player. 

BOS-KEN, a farm-house. Ancient— S.e ken. 

BOSKY, inebriated —Household Words, No. 183. 

BOSMAN, a farmer; "faking a bosman on the main toby,*' rob- 
bing a farmer on the highway. Boss, a master. — American. 
Both terms from the Dutch, bosch-man, one who lives in 
the woods ; otherwise Boschjeman or Bushman. 

BOSS-EYED, a person with one eye, or rather with one eye 
injured. 

BOTHER, to teaze, to annoy. 

BOTHER (from the Hibernicism pother), trouble, or annoyance. 
Grose has a singular derivation, bother, or both-eared, 
from two persons talking at the same time, or to both ears. 
Blother, an old word, signifying to chatter idly.— See 
Hallnuell. 

BOTHERATION! trouble, annoyance; "botheration to it," 
confound it, or deuce take it, an exclamation when irritated. 

BOTTLE-HOLDER, an assistant to a " Second "—Pugilistic ; an 
abettor ; also, the bridegroom's man at a wedding, 

BOTTY, conceited, swaggering. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 103 

BOUNCE, impudence. 
BOUNCE, a showy swindler. 
BOUNCE, to boast, cheat, or -bully.— Old cant. 
BOUNCER, a person who steals whilst bargaining with a trades- 
man ; a lie. 
BOUNDER, a four-wheel cab. Lucus a non lucendo ? 
BOUNETTER, a fortune-telling cheat,— Gipsey. 

BOW-CATCHERS, or kiss-curls, small curls twisted on the 
cheeks or temples of young — and often old — girls, adheriDg 
to the face as if gummed or pasted. Evidently a corruption 
of beau-catchers. Iu old times these were called love- 
locks, when they were the marks at which all the puritan 
and ranting preachers levelled their pulpit pop-guns, loaded 
with sharp and virulent abuse. Hall and Prynne looked 
upon all women as strumpets who dared to let the hair 
depart from a straight line upon their cheeks. The French 
prettily term them accroc7ie-cceitrs, whilst in the United 
States they are plainly and impleasantly called spit- curls. 
Bartlett says : — " Spit curl, a detached lock of hair curled 
upon the temple ; probably from having been at first 
filastered into shape by the saliva. It is now understood 
that the mucilage of quince seed is used by the ladies for 
this purpose." 

" You may prate of your lips, and your teeth of pearl, 
And your eyes so brightly flashing ; 
My song shall be of that saliva curl 
Which threatens my heart to smash in." 

Boston Transcript, October 30, 1S58. 

When men twist the hair on each side of their faces into ropes 
they are sometimes called bell-ropes, as being wherewith 
to draw the belles. Whether bell -ropes or bow-catchers, 
it is singular they should form part of the prisoner's para- 
phernalia, and that a jaunty little kiss-mc quick curl should, 
of all things in the world, ornament a gaol dock ; yet such 
was formerly the case. Hunt, the murderer of Weare, on 
his trial, we are informed by \h.e Athencemn, appeared at the 
bar with a highly pomatumed lovelock sticking tight to his 
forehead. Young ladies, think of this ! 

BOWL-OUT, to put out of the game, to remove out of one's 
way, to detect. — Cricketing term. 

BOWLAS, round tarts made of sugar, apple, and bread, sold in 

the streets. 
BOWLES, shoes. 



I 



Hosted by G00gk 



\ 



104 A DICTIONARY OF 

BOX-HARRY, a term with bagmen or commercial travellers, 
implying diuner and tea at one meal; also dining with 
Humphrey, i.e., going without. — Lincolnshire. 

BRACE UP, to pawn stolen goods. 

BRACELETS, handcuffs. 

BRADS, money. Properly, a small kind of nails used by cob- 
blers. — Compare horse nails. 

BRAD-FAKING, playing at cards. 

BRAGGADOCIO, three months' imprisonment as a reputed 
thief or old offender, — sometimes termed a dose, or a dollop. 
— Household Words, vol. L, p. 579. 

BRAN-NEW, quite new. Properly, Brent, brand, or Fire-new, 
i.e., fresh from the anvil. 

BRASS, money. 

BREAD-BASKET, dumpling depot, victualling office, &c. ? 
are terms given by the " Fancy" to the digestive organ. 

BREAK-DOWN, a jovial, social gathering, a flare up ; in 
Ireland, a wedding. 

BREAKING SHINS, borrowing money. 

BREAKY-LEG, a shilling. 

BREAKY-LEG, strong drink ; a he's been to Bungay fair, and 
broke both his legs," i.e , got drunk. In the ancient 
Egyptian language the determinative character in the hiero- 

- — _— • glyphic verb " to be drunk," has the 

^li^Cr^SM I significant form of the leg of a man 

m2RJr"*U* hpincr amnnt.at.ftr1. 



being amputated. 



BREECHED, or to have the bags off, to have plenty of 
money; "to be well breeched," to be in good circum- 
stances. 

BREECHES, " to wear the breeches," said of a wife who 
usurps the husband's prerogative. 

BREEKS, breeches. — Scotch, now common. 

BRICK, a "jolly good fellow;" "a regular prick," a staunch 
fellow. 

" I bonnetted Whewell, when we gave the Eads their gruel, 
And taught them to eschew all their addresses to the Quean. 
If again they try it on, why to floor them I'll make one, 
Spite of Peeler or of Don, like a brick and a Bean." 

The Jolly Bachelors, Cambridge, 1840. 

Said to be derived from an expression of Aristotle, nrga- 
yorvos dvi]Q. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 105 

BRIEF, a pawnbroker's duplicate. 

BRISKET BEATER, a Roman Catholic. 

BROADS, cards. Broadsman, a card sharper. 

BROAD AND SHALLOW, an epithet applied to the so-called 
" Broad church/' in contradistinction to the " High" and 
" Low" Church. — See high and dry. 

BROAD-FENCER, card seller at races. 

BROSIER, a bankrupt.— Cheshire. Brosier-my-dame, school 
term, implying a clearing of the housekeeper's larder of pro- 
visions, in revenge for stinginess. — Eton. 

BROTHER- CHIP, fellow carpenter. Also, brother-whip, a 
fellow coachman ; and brother- blade, of the same occupa- 
tion or calling — originally a fellow soldier. 

BKOWN, a halfpenny. — See blunt. 

BROWN, "to do brown," to do well or completely (in allusion 
to roasting) ; " doing it brown," prolonging the frolic, or 
exceeding sober bounds; "done brown/' taken in, de- 
ceived, or surprised. 

BROWN BESS, the old Government regulation musket. 

BROWN PAPERMEN, low gamblers. 

BROWN SALVE, a token of surprise at what is heard, and at 
the same time means " I understand you." 

BROWN-STUDY, a reverie. Very common even in educated 
society, but hardly admissible in writing, and therefore 
must be considered a vulgarism. It is derived, by a writer 
in Notes and Queries, from brow study, from the old Ger- 
man braun, or aug-braun, an eye-brow. — Ben Jonson. 

BROWN- TO, to understand, to comprehend. — American. 

BRUISER, a fighting man, a pugilist.— Pugilistic. Shalrspere 
uses the word bruising in a similar sense. 

BRUMS, counterfeit coins. Nearly obsolete. Corruption of 
Brummagem (Bromwicham), the ancient name of Bir- 
mingham, the great emporium of plated goods and imi- 
tation jewellery. 

BRUSH, or brush- off, to run away, or move on. — Old cant. 

BUB, drink of any kind.— See grub. Middleton, the dramatist, 
mentions bubber, a great drinker. 

BUB, a teat, woman's breast. 

BUCK, a gay or smart man, a cuckold. 



Hosted by G00gk 



106 



A DICTIONARY OF 



BUCKHORSE, a smart blow or box on the ear ; derived from 
the name of a celebrated " bruiser" of that name. 

BUCKLE, to bend; "I can't buckle to that," I don't understand 
it ; to yield or give in to a person. Shahc^pere uses the 
word iti the latter sense, Henry IV., i. 1 ; and Haliiwell says 
that u the commentators do not supply auobber example." 
How strauge that in our own streets the term should be 
used every day ! Stop the first costernionger, and he will 
soon inform you the various meanings of buckle.— See 
Notes and Queries, vols, vii., viii., and ix. 

BUCKLE-TO, to bend to one's work, to begin at once, and 
with great energy. 

BUDGE, to move, to inform, to split, or tell tales. 

BUFF, to swear to, or accuse; to split, or peach upon. Old 
word for boasting, 1582. 

BUFF, the bare skin ; "stripped to the buff." 

BUFFER, a dog. Their skins were formerly in great request — 
hence the term, buff meauing in old English to shin. It is 
still used in the ring, buffed meaning stripped to the skin. 
In Irish cant, buffer is a boxer. The buffer of a railway 
carriage doubtless received its very appropriate name from 
the old pugilistic application of this term. 

BUFFER, a familiar expression for a jolly acquaintance, pro- 
bably from the French, bouffard, a fool or clown ; a " jolly 
old buffer," said of a good humoured or liberal old man. 
In 1737, a buffer was a " rogue that killed good sound 
horses for the sake of their skins, by running a long wire 
into them." — Bacchus and Venus. The term was once ap- 
plied to those who took false oaths for a consideration. 

BUFFLE HEAD, a stupid or obtuse person.— Miege. German, 

buffel-haupt, buffalo-headed. 
BUFFY, intoxicated.— Household Words, No. 183. 
BUGGY, a gig, or light chaise. Common term in America and 

in Ireland. 

BUG-HUNTERS, low wretches who plunder drunken men. 

BUILD, applied in fashionable slang to the make or style of 
dress, &c. ; "it's a tidy build, who made it?" 

BULGER, large ; synonymous with buster. 

BULL, term amongst prisoners for the meat served to them in 
jail. 

BULL, one who agrees to purchase stock at a future day, at a 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS, 107 



stated price, but who does not possess money to pay for it, 
trusting to a rise in public securities to render the transac- 
tion a profitable one. Should stocks fall, the bull is then 
called upon to pay the difference. — See bear, who is the 
opposite of a bull, the former selliug, the latter purchas- 
ing — the one operating for & fall or 2, pall down, whilst the 
other operates for a rise or toss up. 

BULL, a crown piece ; formerly, bull's eye. 

BULL-THE-CASK, to pour hot water into an empty rum 
puncheon, and let it stand until it extracts the spirit from 
the wood. The result is drunk by sailors in default of 
something stronger. — Sea. 

BULLY, a braggart ; but in the language of the streets, a man 
of the most degraded morals, who protects prostitutes, and 
lives off their miserable earnings. - Shakespere, Midsummer 
Night's Dream, hi. 1 ; iv. 2. 

BUM, the part on which we sit. — ShaJcespere. Bumbags, trowsers. 

BUM-BAILIFF, a sheriff's officer, — a term, some say, derived 
from the proximity which this gentleman generally main- 
tains to his victims. BlacJcstone says it is a corruption of 
" bound bailiff." 

BUM-BOATS, shore boats which supply ships with provisions, 
and serve as means of communication between the sailors 
and the shore. 

BUM-BRUSHER, a schoolmaster. 

BUMMAREE. This term is given to a class of speculating 
salesmen at Billingsgate market, not recognised as such by 
the trade, but who get a living by buying large quantities 
of fish of the salesmen and re-selling it to smaller buyers. 
The word has been used in the statutes and bye-laws of 
the markets for upwards of 100 years. It has been variously 
derived, but is must probably from the French, bonne 
maree, good fresh fish ! " Mare'e signifie toute sorte de 
poisson de mer qui n'est pas sal6; bonne maree — maree 
fraiche, vendeur de mar^e." — Diet, de VAcad. Franc. The 
bummarees are accused of many trade tricks. One of them 
is to blow up cod-fish with a pipe until they look double 
their actual size. Of course when the fish come to table 
they are flabby, sunken, and half dwindled away. In Nor- 
wich, to bdmmaree one is to run up a score at a public 
house just open, and is equivalent to "running into debt 
with one." 

BUNCH OF FIVES, the hand, or fist. 



Hosted by G00gk 



108 A DICTIONARY OF 

BUNDLE, "to bundle a person off," i.e., to pack him off, send 
him flying. 

BUNG, the landlord of a public-house. 

BUNG, to give, pass, hand over, drink, or indeed to perform 
any action ; bung up, to close up — Pugilistic ; " bung 
over the rag," hand over the money — Old, used by Beau- 
mont and Fletcher, and Skahespere. Also, to deceive one by 
a lie, to cram, which see. 

BUNKER, beer. 

BUNTS, costermonger's perquisites ; the money obtained by 
giving light weight, &c. ; costermongers' goods sold by 
boys on commission. Probably a corruption of bonus, 
bone being the slang for good. Bunce, Grose gives as the 
cant word for money. 

BURDON'S HOTEL, Whitecross- street prison, of which the 
Governor is or was a Mr. Burdon. 

BURERK, a lady. Grose gives buriok, a prostitute. 

BURKE, to kill, to murder, by pitch plaster or other foul 
means. From Burke, the notorious Whitechapel murderer, 
who with others used to waylay people, kill them, and sell 
their bodies for dissection at the hospitals. 

BURYING A MOLL, running away from a mistress. 

BUSKER, a man who sings or performs in a public house. — 

Scotch. 
BUSK (or busking), to sell obscene songs and books at the bars 

and in the tap-rooms of public houses. Sometimes implies 

selling any articles. 
BUSS, an abbreviation of "omnibus," a public carriage. Also, 

a kiss. 
BUST, or burst, to tell tales, to split, to inform. Busting, 

informing against accomplices when in custody. 
BUSTER (burster), a small new loaf ; "twopenny buster," a 

twopenny loaf. "Apennorth o' beeswax (cheese) and a 

peuny buster," a common snack at beershops. 
BUSTER, an extra size ; " what a buster," what a large one ; 

"in for a buster," determined on an extensive frolic or 

spree. Scotch, bustuous ; Icelandic, bostra. 
BUSTLE, money; " to draw the bustle." 
BUTTER, or batter, praise or flattery. To butter, to flatter, 

cajole. 
BUTTER-FINGERED, apt to let things fall. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 109 

BUTTON, a decoy, sham purchaser, &c. At any mock or sham 
auction seedy specimens may be seen. Probably from the 
connection of buttons with Brummagem, which is often used 
as a synonym e for a sham. 

BUTTONER, a man who entices another to play. — See eon- 

NETTER. 

BUTTONS, a page, — from the rows of gilt buttons which adorn 
his jacket. 

BUTTONS, " not to have all one's buttons," to be deficient in 
intellect. 

BUZ, to pick pockets ; buz -faking, robbing. 

BUZ, to share equally the last of a bottle of wine, when there 
is not enough for a full glass for each of the party. 

BUZZERS, pickpockets. Grose gives buz cove aod buz gloak, 
the latter is very ancient cant. 

BUZ-BLOAK, a pickpocket, who principally confines his atten- 
tion to purses and loose cash. Grose gives buz-gloak (or 
cloak ?), an ancient cant word. Buz-napper, a young pick- 
pocket. 

BUZ-NAPPER'S ACADEMY, a school in which young thieves 
are trained. Figures are dressed up, and experienced tutors 
stand in various difficult attitudes for the boys to practice 
upon. When clever enough they are sent on the streets. 
It is reported that a house of this nature is situated in a 
court near Hatton Garden. The system is well explained 
in Dickens' Oliver Twist. 

BYE-BLOW, a bastard child. 

BY GEORGE, an exclamation similar to by jove. The term is 
older than is frequently imagined, vide Bacchus and Venus 
(p. 117), 1737. " Fore (or by) george, I'd knock him 
down." A street compliment to Saint George, the patron 
Saint of England, or possibly to the House of Hanover. 

BY GOLLY, an ejaculation, or oath ; a compromise for " by 
God/' In the United States, small boys are permitted by 
their guardians to say gol darn anything, but they are on 

no account allowed to commit the profanity of G — d d« g 

auy thing. An effective ejaculation and moral waste pipe 
for interior passion or wrath is seen in the exclamation — 
by the-ever-living-jumping-moses — a harmless phrase, 
that from its length expends a considerable quantity of 
fiery anger. 



Hosted by G00gk 



110 A DICTIONARY OF 

CAB, in statutory language, "a hackney carriage drawn by one 
horse." Abbreviated from cabriolet, French; originally 
meaning "a light low chaise." The wags of Paris playing 
upon the word (quasi cabri au lait) used to call a superior 
turn-out of the kind a cabri au creme. Our abbreviation, 
which certainly smacks of slang, has been stamped with the 
authority of " George, Ranger" See the notices affixed 
to the carriage entrances of St. James's Park. 

CAB, to stick together, to muck, or tumble up. — Devonshire. 

CABBAGE, pieces of cloth said to be purloined by tailors. ' 

CABBAGE, to pilfer or purloin. Termed by Johnson a cant 
word, but adopted by later lexicographers as a respectable 
term. Said to have been first used in this sense by Arbuthnot. 

CABBY, the driver of a cab. 

CAD, or cadger (from which it is shortened), a mean or vulgar 
fellow ; a beggar ; one who would rather live on other 
people than work for himself; a man trying to worm some- 
thing out of another, either money or information. John- 
son uses the word, and gives huckster as the meaning, but I 
never heard it used in this sense. Cager, or gager, the 
old cant term for a man. The exclusives in the Univer- 
sities apply the term cad to all non-members. 

CAD, an omnibus conductor. 

CADGE, to beg in an artful or wheedling manner. — North. 

CADGING, begging of the lowest degree. 

CAG-MAG, bad food, scraps, odds and ends; or that which no 
one could relish. Grose gives cagg maggs, old and tough 
Lincolnshire geese, sent to London to feast the poor 
cockneys. 

CAGE, a minor kind of prison. — Shofcespere, part ii. of 
Henry IV., iv. 2. 

CAKE, a fiat, a soft or doughy person, a fool. 

CAKE Y-P ANNUM- FENCER, a man who sells street pastry. 

CALL-A-GO, in street " patter," is to remove to another spot, 
or address the public in different vein. 

CAMESA, shirt or chemise. — Span. Ancient cant, commission. 

CAMISTER, a preacher, clergyman, or master. 

CANARY, a sovereign. This is stated by a correspondent to be 
a Norwich term, that city being famous for its breed of 
those birds. 

CANISTER, the head.— Pugilistic. 



Hosted by G00gk 



r 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. Ill 

CANISTER- CAP, a hafc.— Pugilistic. 

CANNIKEN, a small can, similar to pannikin. — Shalcespere. 

CANT, a blow or toss ; " a cant over the kisser," a blow on the 
mouth .—Kentish. 

CANT OF TOGS, a gift of clothes. 

CARDINAL, a lady's cloak. This, I am assured, is the Seven 
Dials cant term for a lady's garment, but curiously enough 
the same name is given to the most fashionable patterns of 
the article by Regent-street drapers. A cloak with this 
name was in fashion in the year 1760. It received its title 
from its similarity in shape to one of the vestments of a 
cardinal. 

CARNEY, soft talk, nonsense, gammon. — Hibemicism. 

CAROON, five shillings. French, couronne; Gipsey, courna, 
— pansh courna, half-a-crown, 

CxiRPET, "upon the carpet," any subject or matter that is 
uppermost for discussion or conversation. Frequency 
quoted as stir le tapis, but it does not seem to be a correct 
Parisian phrase. 

CARRIER PIGEONS, swindlers, who formerly used to cheat 
Lottery Office Keepers. Nearly obsolete. 

CARROTS, the coarse and satirical term for red hair. 

CARRY- ON, to joke a person to excess, to carry on a 
"spree" too far; " how we carried on, to be sure!" i.e., 
what fun we had. 

CART, a race-course. 

CARTS, a pair of shoes. In Norfolk the carapace of a crab is 
called a crab ca.rt, hence carts would be synonymous with 
crab shells, which see. 

CART WHEEL, a five shilling piece. 

CAS A, or case, a house, respectable or otherwise. Probably 
from the Italian, casa. — Old cant. The Dutch use the word 
kast in a vulgar sense for a house, i.e., mottekast, a brothel. 
Case sometimes means a water-closet. 

CASCADING, vomiting. 

CASE, a bad crown piece. Hale-a-case, a counterfeit half 
crown. There are two sources, either of which may have 
contributed this slang term. Caser is the Hebrew word for 
a crown; and silver coin is frequently counterfeited by 
coating or casing pewter or iron imitations with silver. 



Hosted by G00gk 



112 A DICTIONARY OF 

CASE. A few years ago the term case was applied to persons 
and things ; " what a case he is," i.e., what a curious 
person; 4k a rum case that," or "you are a case," both 
synonymous with the phrase "odd fish,'' common half-a- 
century ago. Among young ladies at boarding schools a 
case means a love affair. 

CASK, fashionable slang for a brougham, or other private 
carriage. — Household Words, No. 183. 

CASS AM, cheese — not caff an, which Egan, in his edition of 
Grose, has ridiculously inserted. — Ancient cant. Latin, 

CASEUS. 

CASTING UP ONE ; S ACCOUNTS, vomiting.— Ota. 
CASTOR, a hat. Castor was once the ancient word for a 

beaver ; and strange to add, beaver was the slang for 

castor, or hat, thirty years ago, before gossamer came 

into fashion. 
CAT, to vomit like a cat.— See shoot the cat. 
CAT, a lady's muff; " to free a cat," i.e., steal a muff. 
CATARACT, a black satin scarf arranged for the display of 

jewellery, much in vogue among " commercial gents." 
CATCH 'EM ALIVE, a trap, also a small-tooth comb. 
CATCHY (similar formation to touchy), inclined to take an 

undue advantage. 
CATEVER, a queer, or singular affair ; anything poor, or very 

bad. From the Lingua Franca, and Italian, cattivo, bad. 

Variously spelled by the lower orders. — See kektever. 

CATGUT-SCRAPER, a fiddler. 

CAT-LAP, a contemptuous expression for weak drink. 

CAT'S WATER, old Tom, or Gin. 

CAT AND KITTEN SNEAKING, stealing pint and quart pots 

from public-houses. 
CATCH-PENNY, any temporary contrivance to obtain money 

from the public, penny shows, or cheap exhibitions. 

CAT-IN-THE-PAN, a traitor, a turn-coat — derived by some 
from the Greek, Karairav, altogether ; or from calce in 
pan, a pan cake, which is frequently turned from side to 
side. 

CAUCUS, a private meeting held for the purpose of concerting 
measures, agreeing upon candidates for office before an 
election, &c— /See Pickerings Vocabulary. 

CAVAULTING, coition. Lingua Franca, cavolta. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 113 



CAVE, or cave in, to submit, shut up. — American. Metaphor 
taken from the sinking of an abandoned mining shaft. 

CHAFF, to gammon, joke, quiz, or praise ironically. Chaff- 
bone, the jaw-bone. — Yorkshire. Chaff, jestiug. In Anglo 
Saxon, ceaf is chaff; and ceafl, bill, beak, or jaw. In the 
" Ancien Riwle," a.d. 1221, ceafle is used in the sense of 
idle discourse. 

CHALK- OUT, or chalk down, to mark out a line of conduct 
or action ; to make a rule, order. Phrase derived from the 
Workshop. 

CHALK UP, to credit, make entry in account books of in- 
debtedness ; " 1 can't pay you now, bat you can chalk it 
up," i.e., charge me with the article in your day-book. 
From the old practice of chalking one's score for drink 
behind the bar- doors of public houses. 

CHALKS, "'to walk one's chalks," to move off, or run away. 
An ordeal for drunkenness used on board ship, to see 
whether the suspected person can walk on a chalked line 
without overstepping it on either side. 

CHAP, a fellow, a boy; "a low chap," a low fellow — abbreviation 
of chap- man, a huckster. Used by Byron in his Critical 
Remarks. 

CHARIOT-BUZZING, picking pockets in an omnibus. 

CHARLEY, a watchman, a beadle. 

CHARLEY-PITCHERS, low, cheating gamblers. 

CHATTER BASKET, common term for a prattling child 
amongst nurses. 

CHATTER -BOX, an incessant talker or chatterer. 

CHATTRY-FEEDER, a spoon. 

CHATTS, dice, — formerly the gallows ; a bunch of seals. 

CHATTS, lice, or body vermin. 

CHATTY, a filthy person, one whose clothes are not free from 
vermin ; chatty doss, a lousy bed. 

CHAUNTER- CULLS, a singular body of men who used to 
haunt certain well known public -houses, and write satirical 
or libellous ballads on any person, or body of persons, for a 
consideration. 7s. 6d. was the usual fee, and in three hours 
the ballad might be heard in St. Paul's Churchyard, or other 
public spot. There are two men in London at the present 
day who gain their living in this way. 



Hosted by G00gk 



114 A DICTIONARY OF 

CHAUNTERS, those street sellers of ballads, last copies of 
verses, and other broadsheets, who sing or bawl the contents 
of their papers. They often term themselves paper 
workers. A. N. — See horse chaunters. 

CHAUNT, to sing the contents of any paper in the streets. 
Cant, as applied to vulgar language, was derived from 
CHaunt. — See Introduction. 

CHEAP, " doing it on the cheap," living economically, or 
keeping up a showy appearance with very little means. 

CHEAP JACKS, or johns, oratorical hucksters and patterers of 
hardware, &c, at fairs and races. They put an article up 
at a high price, and then cheapen it by degrees, indulging 
iu volleys of coarse wit, until it becomes to all appearance a 
bargain, and as such it is bought by one of the crowd. The 
popular idea is that the inverse method of auctioneering 
saves them paying for the auction license. 

CHEEK, share or portion ; " where's my cheek ?" where is my 
allowance ? 

CHEEK, impudence, assurance; cheeky, saucy or forward. 

Lincolnshire, cheek, to accuse. 
CHEEK, to irritate by impudence. 
CHEEK BY JOWL, side by side, — said often of persons in such 

close confabulation as almost to have their faces touch. 

CHEESE, anything good, first-rate in quality, genuine, pleasant, 
or advantageous, is termed the cheese. Mayhew thinks 
cheese, in this sense, is from the Saxon, ceosan, to choose, 
and quotes Chaucer, who uses chese in the sense of choice. 
The London Guide, 1818, says it was from some young 
fellows translating " c'est une autre chose" into "that is 
another cheese.'' Cheese is also Gipsey and Hindoo (see 
Introduction) ; and Persian, chjz, a thing. — See stilton. 

CHEESE, or cheese it (evidently a corruption of cease), leave 
off, or have done; " cheese your barrikin," hold your noise. 

CHEESY, fine or showy. 

CHERUBS, or cherubims, the chorister boys who chaunt in the 
services at the abbeys. 

CHESHIRE CAT, " to grin like a Cheshire cat," to display 
the teeth and gums when laughing. Formerly the phrase 
was " to grin like a Cheshire cat eating cheese." A 
hardly satisfactory explanation has been given of this 
phrase— that Cheshire is a county palatine, and the cats, 



Hosted by G00gk 



I 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 115 

when they think of it, are so tickled with the notion that 

they can't help grinning. 
CHICKEN, a young girl. 
CHICKEN-HEARTED, cowardly, fearful. 
CHI-IKE, a hurrah, a good word, or hearty praise. 
CHINK, money. — Ancient. — See florio. 
CHINKERS, mooey. 
CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK, a child who resembles its father. 

Brother chip, one of the same trade or profession. 
CHIPS, money. 
CHISEL, to cheat. 
CHITTERLINGS, the shirt frills worn still by ancient beaux ; 

properly, the entrails of a pig, to which they are supposed 

to bear some resemblance. Belgian, schyterlingh. 
CHIVARLY, coition. Probably a corruption from the Lingua 

Franca. 
CHIYE, a knife ; a sharp tool of any kind.— Old cant. This 

term is particularly applied to the tin knives used in gaols. 

CHIYE, to cut, saw, or file. 

CHIYE, or chivet, a shout ; a halloo, or cheer, loud tongued. 

From chevy-chase, a boy's game, in which the word chevy 

is bawled aloud ; or from the Gipsey ?—See Introduction. 
CHIYE-FENCER, a street hawker of cutlery. 
CHI YE Y, to chase round, or hunt about. 
CHOCK-FULL, full till the scale comes down with a shock. 

French, choc. A correspondent suggests choked-full. 
CHOKE OFF, to get rid of. Bull dogs can only be made to 

loose their hold by choking them. 
CHOKER, a cravat, a neckerchief. White-choker, the white 

neckerchief worn by mutes at a funeral, and waiters at a 

tavern. Clergymen are frequently termed white -chokers. 
CHOKER, or wind-stopper, a garrotter. 
CHONKEYS, a kind of mince meat baked in a crust, and sold 

in the streets. 
CHOP, to change.— Old. 
CHOPS, properly chaps, the mouth, or cheeks ; " down in the 

chops," or " down in the mouth," i.e., sad or melancholy. 
CHOUSE, to cheat out of one's share or portion. Hackluyt, 

chaus; MassiDger, chiaus. From the Turkish, in which 

I 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



U6 A DICTIONARY OF 

language ib signifies an interpreter. Gifford gives a curious 
story as to its origin : — • 

In the year 1609 there was attached to the Turkish embassy in 
England an interpreter, or chiaous, who by cunning, aided by his 
official position, managed to cheat the Turkish and Persian 
merchants then in London out of the large sum of £4,000, then 
deemed an enormous amount. From the notoriety which attended 
the fraud, and the magnitude of the swindle, any one who 
cheated or defrauded was said to chiaous, or chause, or chouse ; 
to do, that is, as this Chiaous had done.— See Trench, Eng. Past 
and Present, p. 87. 

CHOUT, an entertainment. 

CHOVEY, a shop. 

CHRISTENING, erasing the name of the maker from a stolen 
watch, and inserting a fictitious one in its place. 

CHUBBY, round-faced, plump. 

CHUCK, a schoolboy's treat. — Westminster school. Food, pro- 
vision for an entertainment. — Norwich, 

CHUCK, to throw or pitch. 

CHUCKING A JOLLY, when a costermonger praises the 
inferior article his mate or partner is trying to sell. 

CHUCKING A STALL, where one rogue walks in front of a 
person while another picks his pockets. 

CHUCKLE-HEAD, a fool.— Devonshire. 

CHUFF IT, i.e., be off, or take it away, in answer to a street 
seller who is importuning you to purchase. Halliwell 
mentions chuff as a "term of reproach," surly, &c. 

CHUM, an acquaintance. A recognised term, but in such fre- 
quent use with the lower orders that it demanded a place 
in this glossary. 

CHUM, to occupy a joint lodging with another person. 

CHUMMING-UP, an old custom amongst prisoners when a fresh 
culprit is admitted to their number, consisting of a noisy 
welcome — rough music made with pokers, tongs, sticks, and 
saucepans. For this ovation the initiated prisoner has to 
pay, or fork oyer, half a crown— or submic to a loss of 
coat and waistcoat. The practice is ancient. 

CHUMMY, a chimney sweep ; also a low-crowned felt hat. 

CHUNK, a thick or dumpy piece of any substance. — Kentish. 

CHURCH A YACK (or watch), to take the works of a watch 
from its original case and put them into another one, to 
avoid detection. — See christen. 

CHURCHWARDEN, a long pipe, " a yard of clay." 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 117 

CLAGGUM, boiled treacle in a hardened state, Hardbake. — See 

CLIGGY. 

CLAP, to place ; " do you think you can clap your hand on 
him ?" i.e, t find him out. 

CLAPPER, the tongue. 

CLAP-TRAP, high-sounding nonsense. An ancient Theatrical 
term for a " trap to catch a clap by way of applause from 
the spectators at a play." — Bailey's Dictionary. 

CLARET, blood.— Pugilistic. 

CLEAN, quite, or entirely ; " clean gone," entirely out of sight, 
or away. — Old, see Cotgrave. — Shalcespere. 

CLEAN OUT, to thrash, or beat ; to ruin, or bankrupt any one ; 
to take all they have got, by purchase, or force. De Quincey, 
in his article on " Richard Bentley," speaking of the law- 
suit between that great scholar and Dr. Colbatch, remarks 
that the latter "must have been pretty well cleaned out." 

CLICK, knock, or blow. Click-handed, left-handed. — Cornish. 

CLICK, to snatch. 

CLIFT, to steal. 

CLIGGY, or clidgt, sticky. — Anglo Saxon, clmg, clay. — See 

CLAGGUM. 

CLINCHER, that which rivets or confirms an argument, an 
incontrovertible position. Metaphor from the workshop. 

CLINK-RIG, stealing tankards from public-houses, taverns, &c. 

CLIPPING, excellent, very good. 

CLOCK, " to know what's o'clock," a definition of knowingness 
in general. — See time o'day. 

CLOD-HOPPER, a country clown. 

CLOUT, or rag, a cotton pocket handkerchief. — Old cant. 

CLOUT, a blow, or intentional strike. — Ancient. 

CLOVER, happiness, or luck. 

CLUMP, to strike. 

CLY, a pocket. — Old cant for to steal. A correspondent de- 
rives this word from the Old English, cleyes, claws ; Anglo 
Saxon, clea. This pronunciation is still retained in Nor- 
folk; thus, to cly would mean to pounce upon, snatch. — 
See frisk. 

CLY-FAKER, a pickpocket. 

COACH, a Cambridge term for a private tutor. 



Hosted by G00gk 



118 A DICTIONARY OF 

COACH WHEEL, or tusheeoon, a crown piece, or five shillings. 

COALS, " to call (or pull) over the coals," to take to task, 
to scold. 

COCK, or more frequently now a days, cock-e-e, a vulgar 
street salutation — corruption of cock-eye. The latter is 
frequently heard as a shout or street cry after a man or boy. 

COCK AND A BULL STORY, a long, rambling anecdote.— See 

Notes and Queries, vol. iv., p. 313. 
COCKCHAFER, the treadmill. 
COCK-EYE, one that squints. 

COCKLES, " to rejoice the cockles of one's heart," a vulgar 
phrase implying great pleasure. — See pluck. 

COCKNEY, a native of London. Originally, a spoilt or effemi- 
nate boy, derived from cockering, or foolishly petting a 
person, rendering them of soft or luxurious manners. 
Halliwell states, in his admirable essay upon the word, that 
" some writers trace the word with much probability to the 
imaginary land of cockaygne, the lubber land of the olden 
times." Grose gives Minsheu's absurd but comical deriva- 
tion : — A citizen of London being in the country, and 
hearing a horse neigh, exclaimed, "Lord! hoio that horse 
laiigJis," A bystander informed him that that noise was 
called neighing. The next morning, when the cock crowed, 
the citizen, to show that he had not forgotten what was 
told him, cried out, i( do you hear how the cock neighs? " 

COCK OF THE WALK, a master spirit, head of a party. Places 
where poultry are fed are called walks, and the barn-door 
cocks invariably fight for the supremacy till one has 
obtained it. 

COCKS, fictitious narratives, inverse or prose, of murders, fires, 
and terrible accidents, sold in the streets as true accounts. 
The man who hawks them, a patterer, often changes the 
scene of the awful event to suit the taste of the neighbour- 
hood he is trying to delude. Possibly a corruption of cook, 
a cooked statement, or, as a correspondent suggests, the 
cock lane Ghost may have given rise to the term. This 
had a great run, and was a rich harvest to the running 
stationers. 

COCK ONE'S TOES, to die. 

COCK ROBIN SHOP, a small printer's office, where low wages 
are j)aid to journeymen who have never served a regular 
apprenticeship. 



Hosted by G00gle 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 119 

COCKSHY, a game at fairs and races, where trinkets are set 
upon sticks, and for one penny three throws at them are 
accorded, the thrower keeping whatever he knocks off. From 
the ancient game of throwing or " shying " at live cocks. 

COCKSURE, certain. 

COCKY, pert, saucy. 

COCKYOLY BIRDS, little birds, frequently called "dickey 
birds." — Kingsley's Two Years Ago. 

COCK, " to cock your eye," to shut or wink one eye. 

COCUM, advantage, luck, cunning, or sly, " to fight cocuh," to 

be wily and cautious. 
CODDS, the "poor brethren" of the Charter-house. At p. 133 

of the Neivcomes, Mr. Thackeray writes, " The Cistercian 

lads call these old gentlemen codds, I know not wherefore." 

An abbreviation of codger. 

CODGER, an old man ; " a rum old codger," a curious old 
fellow. Codger is sometimes used synonymous with cadger, 
and then signifies a person who gets his living in a question- 
able manner. Cager, or gager, was the old cant term for 
a man. 

COFFEE-SHOP, a water-closet, or house of ofifice. 

COG, to cheat at dice. — Shakespere. Also, to agree with, as one 
cog-wheel does with another. 

COLD BLOOD, a house licensed for the sale of beer " not to be 
drunk on the premises." 

COLD COOK, an undertaker. 

COLD MEAT, a corpse. 

COLD SHOULDER, " to show or give any one the cold 
shoulder," to assume a distant manner towards them, 
to evince a desire to cease acquaintanceship. Sometimes it 
is termed "cold shoulder of mutton." 

COLLAR, " out of collar," i.e., out of place, no work. 

COLLAR, to seize, to lay hold of. 

COLLY- WOBBLES, a stomach ache, a person's bowels, — sup- 
posed by many of the lower orders to bo the seat of feeling 
and nutrition ; an idea either borrowed from, or transmitted 
by, the ancients. — Devonshire. 

COLT'S TOOTH, elderly persons of juvenile tastes are said to 
have a colt's tooth. 

COMB-CUT, mortified, disgraced, " down on one's luck."— See 

CUT. 



Hosted by G00gk 



120 A DICTIONARY OF 

COME, a slang verb used in many phrases; "Ant he coming 
it ?" i.e., is he not proceeding at a great rate ? " Don't 
come tricks here," " don't come the old soldier over 
me," i.e., we are aware of your practices, and " twig " your 
manoeuvre. Coming it strong, exaggerating, going a-head, 
the opposite of "drawing it mild." Coming it also means 
informing or disclosing. 
COMB DOWN, to pay down. 

COMMISSION, a shirt.— Ancient cant. Italian, camicia. 
COMMISTER, a chaplain or clergyman. 
COMMON SEWER, a drain, or drink. 

COMMONS, rations, because eaten in common. — University. 
Short commons (derived from the University slang term), a 
scanty meal, a scarcity. 
CONK, a nose ; conky, having a projecting or remarkable nose. 
The Duke of Wellington was frequently termed " Old 
conky" in satirical papers and caricatures. 
CONSTABLE, " to overrun the constable," to exceed one'** 

income, get deep in debt. 
CONVEY, to steal; "convey, the wise it call." 
CONVEYANCER, a pick-pocket. Shakespere uses the cant ex- 
pression, conveyer, a thief. The same term is also French 
dang. 
COOK, a term well known in the Bankruptcy Courts, referring to 
accounts that have been meddled with, or cooked, by the 
bankrupt ; also the forming a balance sheet from general 
trade inferences ; stated by a correspondent to have been 
first used in reference to the celebrated alteration of the 
accounts of the Eastern Counties Railway, by George 
Hudson, the Railway King. 
COOK ONE'S GOOSE, to kill or ruin any person.— North. 
COOLIE, a soldier, in allusion to the Hindoo coolies, or day 

labourers. 
COON, abbreviation of Racoon.— American. A gone coos— ditto, 
one in an awful flx, past praying for. This expression is 
said to have originated in the American war with a spy, who 
dressed himself in a racoon skin, and ensconced himself in a 
tree. An English rifleman taking him for a veritable coon 
levelled his piece at him, upon which he exclaimed, "Don't 
shoot, 111 come down of myself, I know I'm a gone coon." 
The Yankees say the Britisher was so flummuxed, that he 
flung down his rifle and "made tracks" for home. The 
phrase is pretty usual in England. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 121 

COOPER, stout half-and-half, i.e., half stout and half porter. 

COOPER, to destroy, spoil, settle, or finish. Cooper'd, spoilt, 
** done up," synonymous with the Americanism, caved in, 
fallen in and ruined. The vagabonds' hieroglyphic V> 
chalked by them on gate posts and houses, signifies that the 
place has been spoilt by too many tramps calling there. 

COOPER, to forge, or imitate in writing; " cooper a moneker," 
to forge a signature. 

COP, to seize or lay hold of anything unpleasant ; used in a 
similar sense to catch in the phrase " to COP (or catch) a 
beating," " to get copt." 

COPER, properly horse-couper, a Scotch horse- dealer, — used to 
denote a dishonest one. 

COPPER, a policeman, i.e., one who cops, which see. 

COPPER, a penny. Coppers, mixed pence. 

COPUS, a Cambridge drink, consisting of ale combined with 
Bpices, and varied by spirits, wines, &c. Corruption of 
hippocras. 

CORINTHIANTSM, a term derived from the classics, much in 
vogue some years ago, implying pugilism, high life, " sprees," 
roistering, &c. — Shakespere. The immorality of Corinth was 
proverbial in Greece. KoolvBlciZ, saBau, to Connihianise, 
indulge in the company of courtesans, was a Greek slang ex- 
pression. Hence the proverb — 

Ov ttcivtos avdpbs els KopivBov ictf 6 ttXovs, 

and jffbrace, Epist. lib. 1, xvii. 36 — ■ 

Non cuivis homini contingit adire Corintbum, 

in allusion to the spoliation practised by the " hetaeras " on 

those who visited them. 
CORK, " to draw a cork," to give a bloody nose.— Pugilistic. 
CORKS, money ; " how are you off for corks ?" a soldier's term 

of a very expressive kind, denoting the means of " keeping 

afloat." 
CORNED, drunk or intoxicated. Possibly from soaking or pick- 
ling oneself like corned beef. 
CORNERED, hemmed in a corner, placed in a position from 

which there is no escape. — American. 
CORPORATION, the protuberant front of an obese person. 
CORPSE, to confuse or put out the actors by making a mistake. 

— Theatrical. 
COSSACK, a policeman. 



Hosted by G00gk 



122 A DICTIONARY OF 



COSTERMONGERS, street sellers of fish, fruit, vegetables, 
poultry, &c. The London costermongers number more than 
30,000. They form a distinct class, occupying whole 
neighbourhoods, and are cut off from the rest of metro- 
politan society by their low habits, general improvidence, 
pugnacity, love of gambling, total want of education, dis- 
regard for lawful marriage ceremonies, and their use of a 
cant (or so-called bach slang) language. 

COSTER, the short and slang term for a costermonger, or 
costard -monger, who was originally an apple seller. Coster- 
ing, i.e., costermongering. 

COTTON, to like, adhere to, or agree with any person; " to 
cotton on to a man," to attach yourself to him, or fancy 
him, literally, to stick to him as cotton would. Vide Bart- 
lett, who claims it as an Americanism; and Ballkvell, who 
terms it an Archaism ; also Bacchus and Venus, 1737. 

COUNCIL OF TEN, the toes of a man who turns his feet in- 
ward. 

COUNTER JUMPER, a shopman, a draper's assistant. 

COUNTY-CROP [i.e., county-prison crop), hair cut close and 
round, as if guided by a basin — an indication of having 
been in prison. 

COUTER, a sovereign. Half-a-couter, half-a-sovereign. 

COVE, or covet, a boy or man of any age or station. A term 
generally preceded by an expressive adjective, thus a " flash 
cove," a "rum cove,'' a " downy cove," &c. The femi- 
nine, covess, was once popular, but it has fallen into dis- 
use. Ancient cant, originally (temp. Henry VIII.) coee, or 
cuffin, altered in Decker 's time to cove. Probably con- 
nected with cuie, which, in the North of England, signifies 
a lout or awkward fellow. Amongst Negroes, cuffee. 

COVENTRY, " to send a man to Coventry," not to speak to or 
notice him, Coventry was one of those towns in which the 
privilege of practising most trades was anciently confined to 
certain privileged persons, as the freemen, &c. Hence a 
stranger stood little chance of custom, or countenance, and 
"to send a man to Coventry," came to be equivalent to 
putting him out of the pale of society. 

COVER-DOWN, a tossing coin with a false cover, enabling 
either bead or tail to be shown, according as the cover is 
left on or taken off. 

COWAN, a sneak, an inquisitive or prying person.— Masonic 
term. Greek, kvo)v, a dog. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 123 

COW'S GREASE, butter. 

COW-LICK, the term given to the lock of hair which coster- 
mongers and thieves usually twist forward from the ear ; a 
large greasy curl upon the cheek, seemingly licked into 
shape. The opposite of newgate-knocker, which see. 

COXY-LOXY, good-tempered, drunk.— Norfolk. 

CRAB, or grab, a disagreeable old person. Name of a wild 
and sour fruit. " To catch a crab," to fall backwards by 
missing a stroke in rowing. 

CRAB, to offend, or insult; to expose or defeat a robbery, to 
inform against. 

CRABSHELLS, or trotting cases, shoes. — See carts. 

CRACK, first rate, excellent; " a crack hand," an adept ; a 

"crack article," a good one. — Old. 
CRACK, dry firewood. — Modem Gipsey. 

CRACK, '" in a crack (of the finger and thumb)," in a moment. 
CRACK A BOTTLE, to drink. Shakespere uses crush in the 

same slang sense. 
CRACK A KIRK, to break into a church or chapel. 
CRACK-FENCER, a man who sells nuts. 
CRACK-UP, to boast or praise.— Ancient English. 
CRACKED-UP, penniless, or rained. 
CRACKSMAN, a burglar. 
CRAM, to lie or deceive, implying to fill up or cram a person 

with false stories; to acquire learning quickly, to "grind" 

or prepare for an examination. 
CRAMMER, a lie ; or a person who commits a falsehood. 
CRANKY, foolish, idiotic, ricketty, capricious, not confined to 

persons. Ancient cant, cranke, simulated sickness. German, 

krank, sickly. 

CRAP, to ease oneself, to evacuate. Old word for refuse ; also 
old cant, crop. 

CRAPPING CASE, or ken, a privy, or water-closet. 

CRAPPED, hanged. 

CREAM OF THE VALLEY, gin. 

CRIB, house, public or otherwise ; lodgings, apartments. 

CRIB, a situation. 

CRIB, to steal or purloin. 

CRIB, a literal translation of a classic author. — University . 



Hosted by G00gk 



124 A DICTIONARY OF 

CRIB BITER, an inveterate grumbler ; properly said of a horse 
which has this habit, a sign of its bad digestion. 

CRIBBAGE FACED, marked with the small pox, full of holes 
like a cribbage board. 

CRIKEY, profane exclamation of astonishmeut ; " Oh, crikey, 
you don't say so !" corruption of " Oh, Christ." 

CRIMPS, men who trepan others into the clutches of the re- 
cruiting sergeant. They generally pretend to give employ- 
ment in the colonies, and in that manner cheat those 
mechanics who are half famished. Nearly obsolete. 

CRIPPLE, a bent sixpence. 

CROAK, to die — from the gurgling sound a person makes when 
the breath of life is departing. — Oxon. 

CROAKER, one who takes a desponding view of everything ; 

an alarmist. From the croaking of a raven. — Ben Jonson. 
CROAKER, a beggar. 

CROAKER, a corpse, or dying person beyond hope. 
CROAKS, last dying speeches, and murderers' confessions. 

CROCODILES' TEARS, the tears of a hypocrite. An ancient 

phrase, introduced into this country by Mandeville, or other 

early English traveller. — Othello, iv., 1. 
CROCUS, or ceoakus, a quack or travelling doctor ; ceoctjs- 

chovey, a chemist's shop. 
CROJSTY, a termagant or malicious old woman; an intimate 

friend. Johnson calls it cant. 
CROOKY, to hang on to, to lead, walk arm-in-arm; to court or 

pay addresses to a girl. 
CROPPIE, a person who ha3 had his hair cut, or ceopped, in 

prison. 
CROPPED, hanged. 
CROSS, a general term amongst thieves expressive of their 

plundering profession, the opposite of square. "To get 

anything on the cross" is to obtain it surreptitiously. 

" Cross-fanning in a crowd," robbing persons of their scarf 

pins. 
CROSS COVE and MOLLISHER, a man and woman who live 

by thieving. 
CROSS-CRIB, a house frequented by thieves. 

CROW, one who watches whilst another commits a theft, a con- 
federate in a robbery. The CROW looks to see that the way 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 125 

is clear, whilst the sneak, his partner, commits the depre- 
dation. 

CROW, "a regular crow/' a success, a stroke of luck, — equi- 
valent to a FLUKE. 

CROW, "I have a crow to pick with you," i.e., an explanation 
to demand, a disagreeable matter to settle ; " to cock-crow 
over a person," to exalt over his abasement or misfortune. 

CRUG, food.— Household Words, No. 183. 

CRUMBS, " to pick up one's crumbs," to begin to have an 
appetite after an illness; to improve in health, circum- 
stances, &c., after a loss thereof. 

CRUMMY, fat, plump.— North. 

CRUMMY-DOSS, a lousy or filthy bed. 

CRUNCH, to crush. Corruption; or, perhaps from the sound 
of teeth grinding against each other. 

CRUSHER, a policeman. 

CRUSHING, excellent, first rate. 

CRUSTY, ill tempered, petulant, morose. — Old. 

CULL, a man or boy. — Old cant. 

CULLING, or culing, stealing from the carriages on race- 
courses. 

CUPBOARD HEADED, an expressive designation of one whose 
head is both wooden aud hollow. — Norfolk. 

CURE, an odd person ; a contemptuous term, abridged from 
curiosity — which was formerly the favourite expression. 
— Compare stipe. 

CURSE OF SCOTLAND, the Nine of Diamonds. Various 
hypotheses have been set up as to this appellation— that it 
was the card on which the "Butcher Duke" wrote a cruel 
order with respect to the rebels after the battle of Culloden; 
that the diamonds are the nine lozeuges in the arms of 
Dalrymple, Earl of Stair, detested for his share in the 
Massacre of Glencoe ; that it is a corruption of Cross of 
Scotland, the nine diamonds being arranged somewhat after 
the fashion of a St. Andrew's Cross ; but the most probable 
explanation is, that iu the game of Pope Joan the nine of 
diamonds is the pope, of whom the Scotch have an especial 
horror. 

CURTAIL, to cut off. Originally a cant word, vide Hudibras, 

and Bacchus and Venus, 1737. 
CUSHION THUMPER, polite rendering of tub thumper, a 
clergyman, a preacher. 



Hosted by G00gk 



126 A DICTIONARY OF 

CUSTOMER, synonymous with chap, a fellow ; " a rum cus- 
tomer," i. e., an odd fish, or curious person. — Shahespere. 

CUSTOMHOUSE OFFICER, an aperient pill. 

CUT, to run away, move off quickly ; to cease doing anything ; 
CUT and run, to quit work, or occupation, and start off at 
once ; to cut didoes, synouymous with to cut capers ; cut 
a dash, make a show ; cut a caper, to dance or show off 
in a strange manner ; cut a figure, to make either a good 
or bad appearance ; cut out, to excel, thus iu affairs of 
gallantry one Adonis is said to il cut the other out" in the 
affections of the wished for lady ; cut that ! be quiet, or 
stop; cut out op, done out of; cut op one's gib, the 
expression or cast of his countenauce [see gib] ; to cut 
one's comb, to take down a conceited person, from the 
practice of cutting the combs of capons [see comb-cut] ; 
cut and come again, plenty, if oDe cut does not suffice, 
plenty remains to " come again ;" cut up, mortified, to 
criticise severely, or expose ; cut up shines, to play tricks ; 
cut one's stick, to be off quickly, i. e., be in readiness for a 
journey, further elaborated into amputate your mahogany 
[see Stick] ; cut it fat, to exaggerate or show off in an 
extensive manner ; to cut up fat, to die, leaving a large 
property; cut under, to undersell; cut your lucky, to 
run oft"; cut one's cart, to expose their tricks ; cut an 
acquaintance, to cease friendly intercourse with them — 
Cambridge. Old ; cutte, to say. 

CUT, in theatrical language, means to strike out portions of a 
dramatic piece, so as to render it shorter for representation. 
A late treasurer of one of the so called Patent Theatres, 
when asked his opinion of a new play, always gave utter- 
ance to the brief, but safe piece of criticism, "wants 
cutting." 

CUT, tipsey.— Household Words, No. 183. 

CUT, to compete in business. 

CUT-THROAT, a butcher, a cattle slaughterer ; a ruffian. 

CUTE, sharp, cunning. Abbreviation of acute. 

CUTTER, a ruffian, a cut purse. Of Robin Hood it was said — 

" So being outlawed (as 'tis told), 
He with a crew went forth 
Of lusty cutters, bold and strong, 
And robbed in the north." 

This ancient cant word now survives in the phrase, "to 
swear like a cutter." 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 127 

CUTTY PIPE, a short clay pipe. Scotch, cutty, short. Cutty- 

sark, a scantily draped lady is so called by Burns. 
DAB, or dabster, an expert person. Johnson says, " in low- 
language, an artist." 
DAB, a bed. 

DAB, street term for a flat fish of any kind.— Old. 
DACHA-SALTEE, tenpence. Probably fro in the Lingua Franca. 
Modern Greek, <W; Italian, dieci soldi, tenpence; Gipsey, 
dik, ten. So also dacha-o^e, i.e , dieciuno, elevenpence. — 
See SALTEE. 
DADDLES, hands ; " tip us your daddles, i, e., shake hands. 
DADDY, the stage manager. — Theatrical. Also the person who 

gives away the bride at weddings. 
DAGS, feat or performance ; " I'll do your dags," i.e., I will do 

something that you cannot do. 
DAISY CUTTER, a horse which trots or gallops without 

lifting its feet much from the ground. 
DAISY KICKERS, the name hostlers at large inns used to give 
each other, now nearly obsolete. Daisy-kicker, or grog- 
ham, was likewise the cant term for a horse. 

The daisy- kickers were sad rogues in the old posting- 
days; frequently the laudlords rented the stables to them, 
as the only plau to make them return a profit. 
DAMPER, a shop till ; to draw a damper, i.e., rob a till. 
DANCE UPON NOTHING, to be hanged. 
DANCERS, stairs.— Old cant. 
DANDER, passion, or temper; "to get one's dander up," to 

rouse his passion. — Old. 
DANDY, a fop, or fashionable nondescript. This word, in the 
sense of a fop, is of modern origin. Egan says it was first 
used in 1820, and Bee in 1816. Johnson does not mention 
it, although it is to be ' found in all late dictionaries. 
Dandies wore stays, studied feminity, and tried to undo 
their manhood. Lord Petersham headed them. At the 
present day dandies of this stamp are fast disappearing. 
The feminine of dandy was dandizette, but the term only 
lived for a short season. 
DANDYPRAT, a funny little fellow, a mannikin; originally a 

half-farthing. 
DANNA, excrement; danna drag, a nightman's or dustman's 
cart. 



^ 



GooQle 



L 



128 A DICTIONARY OF 

DARBIES, handcuffs.— Old cant. 

DARBLE, the devil.— French, diable. 

DARK, " keep it dark," i.e., secret. Dark horse, in racing 
phraseology a horse whose chance of success is unknown, 
and whose capabilities have not been made the subject of 
comment. 

DARKEY, twilight. Darkmans, the night. 

DARN, vulgar corruption of d n.— American. 

DASHING, showy, fast. 

DAVID'S SOW, u as drunk as David's sow," i.e., beastly drunk. 
— See origin of the phrase in Grose's Dictionary. 

DAVY, " on my davt," on my affidavit, of which it is a vulgar 
corruption. Latterly davy has become synonymous in 
street, language with the name of the Deity; " so help 
me davy," slang rendering of the conclusion of the oath 
usually exacted of witnesses. 

DAVY r 'S LOCKER, or davy jones' locker, the sea, the com- 
mon receptacle for all things thrown overboard ; — a nautical 
phrase for death, the other world. 

DAWDLE, to loiter, or fritter away time. 

DAYLIGHTS, eyes; "to darken his daylights," to give a 
person black eyes. 

DEAD ALIVE, stupid, dull. 

DEAD HORSE, " to draw the dead horse," dead-horse work, 

— working for wages already paid ; also any thankless or 

unassisted service. 
DEAD-LURK, entering a dwelling-house during divine service. 
DEAD MEN, the term for wine bottles after they are emptied 

of their contents. — Old. — See marines. 
DEAD- SET, a pointed attack on a person. 
DEANER, a shilling. Provincial Gipsey, deanee, a pound, 
DEATH, " to dress to death," i.e., to the very extreme of 

fashion, perhaps so as to be killing. 

DEATH-HUNTERS, running patterers, who vend last dying 
speeches and confessions. 

DECK, a pack of cards. — Old. Used by Bulwer as a cant term. 

General in the United States. 
DEE, a pocket book, term used by tramps. — Gipsey. 
DEMIREP (or rip), a courtesan. Contraction of dehi- 

reputation — Grose. 



t_ 



^Hosted by GoOgle 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 129 



DESPATCHES, false " dice with two sides, double four, double 
five, and double six." — Times, 27th November, 1856. 

DEUCE, the devil. — Old. Stated by Junius and others to be 
from deus. 

DEUCE, twopence ; deuce at cards or dice, one with two pips 
or holes. 

DEVIL, a printer's youngest apprentice, an errand boy. 

DEVIL-DODGERS, clergymen ; also people who go sometimes 
to church and sometimes to meeting. 

DEVIL'S-TEETH, dice. 

DEVOTIONAL HABITS, horses weak in the knees and apt to 
stumble and fall are said to have these. — Stable. 

DEWSKITCH, a good thrashing. 

DIBBS, money ; so called from the buckle bones of sheep, which 
have been used from the earliest times for gambling pur- 
poses, being thrown up five at a time and caught on the 
back of the hand like halfpence. 

DICKEY, bad, sorry, or foolish ; food or lodging is pronounced 
dickey when of a poor description; u it's all dickey with 
him," i.e., all over with him. 

DICKEY, formerly the cant for a worn out shirt, but meaus 
now -a- days a front or half shirt. Dickey was originally 
tommy (from the Greek, ro/i/7, a section), a name which I 
understand was formerly used in Trinity College, Dublin. 
The students are said to have invented the term, and the 
Gyps changed it to dickey, in which dress it is supposed to 
have been imported into England. 

DICKEY, a donkey. 

DICKENS, synonymous with devil ; " what the dickens are you 
after?" what the d — 1 are you doing ? Used by Skahespere 
in the Merry Wives of Windsor. 

DIDDLE, to cheat, or defraud.— Old. 

DIDDLE, old cant word for geneva, or gin. 

DIDDLER, or jeremy diddler, an artful swindler 

DIDOES, pranks or capers; " to cut up didoes," to make pranks. 

DIES, last dying speeches, and criminal trials. 

DIGS, hard blows. 

DIGGERS, spurs ; also the spades on cards. 

DIGGINGS, lodgings, apartments, residence; an expression 

probably imported from California, or Australia, with 

reference to the gold diggings. 

K 



Hosted by G00gk 



130 A DICTIONARY OF 

DILLY DALLY, to trifle. 

DIMBER, neat or pretty. — Worcestershire, but old cant. 

DIMBER D AMBER, very pretty ; a clever rogue who excels his ■ 
fellows ; chief of a gang. Old cant in the latter sense. — 
English Rogue. 

DIMMOCK, money ; " how are you off for dimmock ?" diminutive 
of dime, a small foreign silver coin. 

DINARLY, money ; " nantee dinarly," I have no money, 
corrupted from the Lingua Franca, "niente dinaro," not 
a penny. Turkish, dinari ; Spanish, dinero ; Latin, de- 
narius. 

DING, to strike ; to throw away, or get rid of anything; to pass 
to a confederate. 

DIPPED, mortgaged.— Household Words, No. 183. 

DISGUISED, intoxicated.— Household Words, No. 183. 

DISH, to stop, to do away with, to suppress ; dished, done for, 
floored, beaten, or silenced. A correspondent suggests that 
meat is usually done brown before being dished, and 
conceives that the latter term may have arisen as the 
natural sequence of the former. 

DISHABBILLY, the ridiculous corruption of the French, 
deshabille, amongst fashionably affected, but ignorant 
" stuck-up " people. 

DITHERS, nervous or cold shiverings. "It gave me the 
dithers." 

DIVE, to pick pockets. 

DIVERS, pickpockets. 

DO, this useful and industrious verb has for many years done 
service as a slang term. To do a person is to cheat him. 
Sometimes another tense is employed, such as " I done him/ 
meaning I cheated or "paid him out;" done brown, cheated 
thoroughly, befooled ; done over, upset, cheated, knocked 
down, rained ; done up, used up, finished, or quieted. 
Done also means convicted, or sentenced ; so does done- 
for. To do a person in pugilism is to excel him in fisticuffs. 
Humphreys, who fought Mendoza, a Jew, wrote this laconic 
note to his supporter—" Sir,— I have done the Jew, and am 
in good health. Rich. Humphreys." Tourists use the ex- 
pression " I have done France and Italy," meaning I have 
completely explored those countries. 

DOCTOR, to adulterate or drug liquor ; also to falsify accounts. 
— See cook. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WOEDS. 131 



DODGE, a cunning trick. u Dodge, that homely but expressive 
phrase." — Sir Hugh Cairns on the Reform Bill, 2nd March, 
1859. Anglo Saxon, deogian, to colour, to conceal. The 
tidy dodge, as it is called by street-folk, consists in dressing 
up a family clean and tidy, and parading the streets to excite 
compassion and obtain alms. A correspondent suggests 
that the verb dodge may have been formed (like wench 
from wink) from dog, i.e., to double quickly and unex- 
pectedly, as in coursing. 

DODGER, a tricky person, or one who, to use the popular 
phrase, "knows too much." — See devil-dodger. 

DODGER, a dram. In Kent, a dodger signifies a nightcap ; 
which name is often given to the last dram at night. 

DOG, to follow in one's footsteps on the sly, to track. 

DOG-CHEAP, or dog-foolish, very, or singularly cheap, or 
foolish. Latham, in his English Language, says: — "This 
has nothing to do with dogs. The first syllable is god = 
good transposed, and the second, the ch — p, is chapman, 
merchant : compare eastcheap." — Old term. 

DOG-LATIN, barbarous Latin, such as was formerly used by 
lawyers in their pleadings. 

DOG-ON-IT, a form of mild swearing used by boys. It is just 
worthy of mention that dogone, in Anglo-Norman, is 
equivalent to a term of contempt. Friesic, dogeniet. 

DOGSNOSE, gin and beer, so called from the mixture being 
cold, like a dog's nose. 

DOLDRUMS, difficulties, low spirits, dumps. — Sea. 

DOLLOP, a lump or portion. — Norfolk. Ang. Sax. dael, dole. 

DOLLOP, to dole up, give up a share. — lb. 

DOLLYMOP, a tawdrily-dressed maid servant, a street walker. 

DOLLY SHOP, an illegal pawnshop, — where goods, or stolen 
property, not good enough for the pawnbroker, are received, 
and charged at so much per day. If not redeemed the third 
day the goods are forfeited. Anglo Saxon, dael, a part, — to 
dole ? — See nix. A correspondent thinks it may have been 
derived from the black doll, the usual sign of a rag shop. 

DOMINE, a parson. 

DOMINOS, the teeth. 

DON, a clever fellow, the opposite of a muff; a person of dis- 
tinction in his line or walk. At the Universities, the Masters 
and Fellows are the dons. Don is also used as an adjective, 
" a don hand at a knife and fork," i.e., a first-rate feeder at 
a dinner table. — Spanish. 

K 2 



Hosted by GoOgk 



132 A DICTIONARY OF 

DONE FOR A RAMP, convicted for thieving. 

DONKEY, " three more and up goes the donkey," a vulgar 
street phrase for extracting as much money as possible before 
performing any task. The phrase had its origin with a 
travelling showman, the finale of whose performance was 
the hoisting of a donkey on a pole or ladder ; but this con- 
summation was never arrived at unless the required number 
of "browns" was first paid up, and "three more" was 
generally the unfortunate deficit. 

DONNA AND FEELES, a woman and children. Italian or 

Lingua Franca, donne e figlie. 
DOOKIN, fortune telling. Gipsey, dukkerin. 
DOSE, three months' imprisonment as a known thief. — See 

braggadocio. 
DOSS, a bed. — North. Probably from doze. Mayhew thinks it 

is from the Norman, dossel, a hanging, or bed canopy. 

DOSS, to sleep, formerly spelt dorse. Perhaps from the phrase 
to lie on one's dorsum, back. 

DOSS-KEN, a lodging house. 

DOUBLE, " to tip (or give) the double," to run away from any 
person ; to double back, turn short round upon one's pur- 
suers and so escape, as a hare does. — Sporting. 

DOUBLE -UP, to pair off, or "chum," with another man; to 
beat severely. 

DOUBLE-SHUFFLE, a low, shuffling, noisy dance, common 
amongst costermongers. — See flip-flaps. 

DOUSE, to put out ; " douse that glim," put out that candle.— 
Sea. 

DO WD, a woman's nightcap. — Devonshire ; also an American 
term; possibly from dowdy, a slatternly woman. 

DOWN, to be aware of, or awake to, any move — in this meaning, 
synonymous with up ; " down upon one's luck," unfortu- 
nate; "down in the mouth," disconsolate; "to be down 
on one," to treat him harshly or suspiciously, to pounce 
upon him, or detect his tricks. 

DOWN THE DOLLY, a favourite gambling contrivance, often 
seen in the tap rooms of public houses, at race-courses, and 
fairs, consisting of a round board and the figure of an old 
man or " doll/' down which is a spiral hole. A marble is 
dropped "down the dolly," and stops in one of the small 
holes or pits (numbered) on the board. The bet is decided 
according as the marble stops on a high or low figure. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 133 

DOWN THE ROAD, stylish, showy, after the fashion. 
DOWNER, a sixpence; apparently the Gipsey word, tawno, 

"little one," in course of metamorphosis into the more 

usual "tanner" 
DOWNS, Tothill Fields' prison. 

DOWNY, knowing or cunaing; "a downy cove," a knowing or 
experienced sharper. 

DOWRY, a lot, a great deal ; " dowry of parny," lot of rain or 
water. — See parny. Probably from the Gipsey. 

DOXY, the female companion of a thief or beggar. In the West 
of England, the women frequently call their little girls 
doxies, in a familiar or endearing sense. A learned divine 
once described orthodoxy as being a man's own doxy, and 
heterodoxy another man's doxy. — Ancient cant. 

DRAB, a vulgar or low woman. — Shahespere. 

DRAG, a cart of any kind, a coach; gentlemen drive to the 
races in drags. 

DRAG, a street, or road ; back-drag, back-street. 

DRAG, or three moon, three months in prison. 

DRAGGING, robbing carts, &c. 

DliAGSMEN, fellows who cut trunks from the backs of car- 
riages. They sometimes have a light cart, and " drop 
behind" the plundered vehicle, and then drive off in an 
opposite direction with the booty. 

DRAIN, a drink ; " to do a drain," to take a friendly drink — 
" do a wet;" sometimes called a common sewer. 

DRAW, "come, draw it mild!" i.e., don't exaggerate; oppo- 
site of " come it strong." From the phraseology of the bar 
(of a public), where customers desire the beer to be drawn 
mild. 

DRAWERS, formerly the ancient cant name for very long 
stockings, now a hosier's term. 

DRAWING TEETH, wrenching off knockers. 

DRIVE -AT, to aim at; "what is he driving at?" what does 
he intend to imply ?" a phrase often used when a circuitous 
line of argument is adopted by a barrister, or a strange set 
of questions asked, the purpose of which is not very evident. 

DRIVE, a term used by tradesmen in speaking of business ; 
"he's driving a roaring trade," i.e., a very good one; 
hence, to succeed in a bargain, " I drove a good bargain," 
i.e., got the best end of ib. 



Hosted by G00gk 



134 A DICTIONARY OF 

DRIZ, lace. In a low lodging house this singular autograph 
inscription appeared over the mantelpiece, " Scotch Mary, 
with driz (lace), bound to Dover and back, please God." 

DRIZ FENCER, a.person who sells lace. 

DROP, to quit, go off, or turn aside; "drop the main Toby," 
go off the main road. 

DROP, "to drop into a person," to give him a thrashing. — See 
slip and walk. "To drop on to a man," to accuse or 
rebuke him suddenly. 

DRUM, a house, a lodging, a street ; hazard-drum, a gambling 
house; flash-drum, a house of ill-fame. 

DRUMMER, a robber who first makes his victims insensible by 
drugs or violence, and then plunders them. 

DUB, to pay or give ; " dub up," pay up. 

DUBBER, the mouth ; "mum your dubber," hold your tongue. 

DUBLIN PACKET, to turn a corner; to "take the Dublin 
packet," viz., run round the corner. 

DUBS, a bunch of keys. — Nearly obsolete. 

DUBSMAN, or screw, a turnkey. 

DUCKS AND DRAKES, " to make ducks and drakes of one's 
money," to throw it away childishly, — derived from children 
"shying" flat stones on the surface of a pool, which tbey 
call ducks and drakes, according to the number of skips 
they make. 

DUDDERS, or dudsmen, persons who formerly travelled the 
country as pedlars, selling gown-pieces, silk waistcoats, &c, 
to countrymen. In selling a waistcoat-piece for thirty 
shillings or two pounds, which cost them perhaps five 
shillings, they would show great fear of the revenue officer, 
and beg of the purchasing clodhopper to kneel down in a 
puddle of water, crook his arm, and swear that it might 
never become straight if he told an exciseman, or even his 
own wife. The term and practice are nearly obsolete. In 
Liverpool, however, and at the east end of London, men 
dressed up as sailors, with pretended silk handkerchiefs and 
cigars "only just smuggled from the Indies," are still to be 
plentifully found. 

DUDDS, clothes, or personal property, Gaelic, dud; Ancient 

cant; also Dutch. 
DUFF, pudding; vulgar pronunciation of dough. — Sea. 
DUFFER, a hawker of " Brummagem" or sham jewellery ; a 

sham of any kind ; a fool, or worthless person. Duffer 



Hosted by G'OOgle 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 135 

was formerly synonymous with dudder, and was a general 

term given to pedlars. It is mentioned in the Frauds of 

London (1760), as a word in frequent use in the last 

century to express cheats of all kinds. From the German, 

durfen, to want ? 
DUFFING, false, counterfeit, worthless. 
DUKE, gin.— Household Words, No. 183. 
DUMB-FOUND, to perplex, to beat soundly till not able to 

speak. Originally a cant word. Johnson cites the Spectator 

for the earliest use. Scotch, dumfounder. 
DUMM ACKER, a knowing or acute person. 
DUMMIES, empty bottles and drawers in an apothecary's shop, 

labelled so as to give an idea of an extensive stock. 
DUMMY, in three-handed whist the person who holds two 

hands plays dummy. 
DUMMY, a pocket book. 
DUMP FENCER, a man who sells buttons. 
DUMPY, short and stout. 
DUMPISH, sullen, or glumpy. 
DUN, to solicit payment.— Old cant, from the French donnez, 

give ; or from joe dun, the famous bailiff of Lincoln ; or 

simply a corruption of din, from the Anglo Saxon dunan, 

to clamour ? 
DUNAKER, a stealer of cows or calves Nearly obsolete. 
DUNDERHEAD, a blockhead. 
DUNG, an operative who works for an employer who does not 

give full or " society" wages. 
DUNNAGE, baggage, clothes. Also, a Sea term for wood or 

loose faggots laid at the bottom of ships, upon which is 

placed the cargo. 
DUNNY-KEN, a water-closet. — See ken. 
DURRYNACKING, offering lace or any other article as an 

introduction to fortune-telling ; generally pursued by 

women. 
DUST, money ; " down with the dust," put down the money. 

■ — Ancient. Dean Swift once took for his text, " He who 

giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord." His sermon was 

short. u Now, my brethren," said he, "if you are satisfied 
with the security, down with the dust." 
DUST, a disturbance, or noise, " to raise a dust," to make a row. 
DUTCH CONSOLATION, " thank God it is no worse." 



Hosted by G00gk 



136 A DICTIONARY OF 

DUTCH CONCERT, where each performer plays a different 

tune. 
DUTCH COURAGE, false courage, generally excited by drink,— 

pot -valour. 
DUTCH FEAST, where the host gets drunk before his guest. 
DUTCH UNCLE, a personage often introduced in conversation, 

but exceedingly difficult to describe ; " I'll talk to him like 

a dutch uncle !" conveys the notion of anything but a 

desirable relation. — A mericanism. 

DOUBLE DUTCH, gibberish, or any foreign tongue. 

EARL OF CORK, the ace of diamonds. — Rihernicism. 

" What do you mean by the Earl of Cork?" asked Mr. Squander. 
"The ace of diamonds, your honour. It's the worst ace, and 
the poorest card in the pack, and is called the Earl of Cork, be- 
cause he's the poorest nobleman in Ireland." — Carle ton's Traits 
and Stories uf the Irish Peasantry. 

EARWIG-, a clergyman, also one who prompts another ma- 
liciously. 

EARWIGGING, a rebuke in private ; a wigging is more public. 

EASE, to rob ; " easing a bloak," robbing a man. 

EGG, or egg on, to excite, stimulate, or provoke one person to 
quarrel with another, &c. Cor. of edge, or edge on. — Ancient. 

ELBOW, " to shake one's elbow," to play at cards. 

ELBOW GREASE, labour, or industry. 

ELEPHANT, " to have seen the elephant," to be " up to the 
latest move," or "down to the last new trick;" to be 
knowing, and not " green," &c. Possibly a metaphor taken 
from the travelling menageries, where the elephant is the 
finale of the exhibition. — Originally an Americanism. 
Bartlett gives conflicting examples. General now, however. 

EVAPORATE, to go, or run away. 

EVERLASTING STAIRCASE, the treadmill. Sometimes 
called " Colonel Chesterton's everlasting staircase," from 
the gallant inventor or improver. 

EXTENSIVE, frequently applied in a slang sense to a person's 
appearance or talk ; " rather extensive that !" intimating 
that the person alluded to is showing off, or " cutting it fat." 

EYE WATER, gin. 

FAD, a hobby, a favourite pursuit. 

FADGE, a farthing. 

FADGE, to suit or fit ; " it won't eadge," it will not do. Used 
by Shahespere, but now heard only in the streets. 



Hosted by G00gk 



r 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 137 

FAG, to beat, also one boy working for another at school. 

FAG, a schoolboy who performs a servant's offices to a superior 
school-mate. Grose thinks fagged out is derived from this. 

FAGOT, a term of opprobrium used by low people to children ; 
" you little fagot, you !" Fagot was originally a term of 
contempt for a dry, shrivelled old woman, whose bones were 
like a bundle of sticks, ODly fit to burn. — Compare the 
French expression for a heretic, sentir le fagot. 

FAKE, to cheat, or swindle ; to do anything ; to go on, or con- 
tinue; to make or construct; to steal, or rob, — a verb 
variously used. Faked, done, or done for; " fake away, 
there's no down," go on, there is nobody looking. Maykew 
says it is from the Latin, facimentum. 

FAKEMENT, a false begging petition, any act of robbery, 
swindling, or deception. 

FAKEMENT CHARLEY, the owner's private mark. 

FAKER, one who makes or fakes anything. 

FAKING A CLY, picking a pocket. 

FAMBLES, or famms, the hands. — Ancient cant. German, 
faugen. 

FAMILY MEN, or people, thieves, or burglars. 

FAN", a waistcoat. 

FANCY, the favourite sports, pets, or pastime of a person, the 
tan of loio life. Pugilists are sometimes termed the fancy. 
ShaJcespere uses the word in the sense of a favourite, or pet ; 
and the paramour of a prostitute is still called her fancy- 
man. 

FANCY-BLOAK, a fancy or sporting man. 

FAN-TAIL, a dustman's hat. 

FAST, gay, spreeish, unsteady, thoughtless, — an Americanism 
that has of late ascended from the streets to the drawing- 
room. The word has certainly now a distinct meaning, 
which it had not thirty years ago. Quick is the synonyme 
for fast, but a quick man would not convey the meaniug of 
a fast man, — a person who by late hours, gaiety, and con- 
tinual rounds of pleasure, lives too fast and wears himself 
out. In polite society a fast young lady is one who affects 
mannish habits, or makes herself conspicuous by some un- 
feminine accomplishment, — talks slang, drives about in 
London, smokes cigarettes, is knowing in dogs, horses, &c. 
An amusing anecdote is told of a fast young lady, the 
daughter of a right reverend prelate, who was an adept in 
horseflesh. Being desirous of ascertaining the opinion of a 



Hosted by G00gk 



138 A "DICTIONARY OF 

candidate for ordination, who had the look of a bird of the 
same feather, as to the merits of some cattle just brought 
to her father's palace for her to select from, she was assured 
by him they were utterly unfit for a lady's use. With a 
knowing look at the horses' points, she gave her decision in 
these choice words, "Well, I agree with you; they are a 
rum lot, as the Devil said of the ten commandments." 

FAST, embarrassed, wanting money. Synonymous with hard 
UP. — Yorkshire. 

FAT, a printer's term signifying the void spaces on a page, for 
which he is paid at the same rate as full or unbroken 
pages. This work afforded much fat for the printers. 

FAT, rich, abundant, &c; "a fat lot;" "to cut it fat," to 
exaggerate, to show off in an extensive or grand mannei-, 
to assume undue importance; cut up fat," see under cut. 
As a Theatrical term, a part with plenty of fat in it, is one 
which affords the actor an opportunity of effective display. 

FATHER, or fence, a buyer of stolen property. 

FAWNEY, a finger ring. 

FAWNEY BOUNCING, selling rings for a wager. This practice 
is founded upon the old tale of a gentleman laying a wager 
that if he was to offer "real gold sovereigns" at a penny a 
piece at the foot of London Bridge, the English public would 
be too incredulous to buy. The story states that the 
gentleman stationed himself with sovereigns in a tea tray, 
and sold only two within the hour, — winning the bet. 
This tale the fawnbt bouncers tell the public, only offer- 
ing brass, double gilt rings, instead of sovereigns. 

FAWNEY, or fawney rig, ring dropping. A few years ago, 
this practice, or rig, was very common. A fellow purposely 
dropped a ring, or a pocket book with some little articles of 
jewellery, &c, in it, and when he saw any person pick it 
up, ran to claim half. The ring found, the question of 
how the booty was to be divided had then to be decided. 
The Fawney says, " if you will give me eight or nine shillings 
for my share the things are yours." This the flat thinks 
very fair._ The ring of course is valueless, and the swallower 
of the bait discovers the trick too late. 

FEATHERS, money, wealth ; " in full feather," rich. 

FEEDER, a spoon. — Old cant. 

FEELE, a daughter, or child. — Corrupted French. 

FELT, a hat.— Old term, in use in the sixteenth century. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 139 

FENCE, or fencer, a purchaser or receiver of stolen goods ; 
fence, the shop or warehouse of a fencer. — Old cant. 

FENCE, to sell or pawn stolen property to a fencer. 

FERRICADOUZER, a knock down below, a good thrashing. 
Probably derived through the Lingua Franca from the 
Italian, far' cader' morto, to knock down dead. 

FIB, to beat, or strike. — Old cant. 

FIDDLE, a whip. 

FIDDLE FADDLE, twaddle, or trifling discourse.— Old cant. 

FIDDLE STICKS ! nonsense. 

FIDDLER, or fadge, a farthing. 

FIDDLER, a sixpence. —Household Words, No. 183. 

FIDDLER, a sharper, a cheat ; also one who dawdles over little 
matters, and neglects great ones. 

FIDDLERS' MONEY, a lot of sixpences ;— 6d. was the remu- 
neration to fiddlers from each of the company in old times. 

FIDDLING, doing any odd jobs in the streets, holding horse?, 
carrying parcels, &c, for a living. Among the middle 
classes, fiddling means idling away time, or trifling; and 
amongst sharpers, it means gambling. 

FID FAD, a game similar to chequers, or drafts, played in the 
West of England. 

FIDLUM REN, thieves who take anything they can lay their 
hands upon. 

FIELD-LANE-DUCK, a baked sheep's head. Field-lane is a 
low London thoroughfare, leading from the foot of Holborn- 
hill to the purlieus of Clerkenwell- It was formerly the 
market for stolen pocket handkerchiefs. 

FIG, "to fig a horse," to play improper tricks with one in 

order to make him lively. 
FIG, " in full fig," i.e., full dress costume, " extensively got up." 
FIGURE, " to cut a good or bad figure," to make a good or 
indifferent appearance ; " what's the figure ?'' how much i3 
to pay ? Figure-head, a person's face. — Sea term. 

FILCH, to steal, or purloin. Originally a cant word, derived 
from the filches, or hooks, thieves used to carry, to hook 
clothes, or any portable articles from open windows. — Vide 
Decker. It was considered a cant or Gipsey term up to the 
beginning of the last century. Harman has " fylche, to 
robbe." 

FILE, a deep, or artful man, a jocose name for a cunning person. 



Hosted by G00gle 



140 A DICTIONARY OF 

Originally a term for a pickpocket., when to file was to 

cheat or rob. File, an artful man, was used in the thirteenth 

and fourteenth centuries. 
FILLIBRUSH, to natter, praise ironically. 
FIMBLE-F AMBLE, a lame prevaricating excuse. — Scand. 
FIN, a hand; " come, tip us your fin," viz., let us shake hands. 

— Sea. 

FINDER, one who finds bacon and meat at the market before 

they are lost, i.e., steals them. 
FINUF, a five-pound note. Double finuf, a ten-pound note. 

— German, funf, five. 

FISHY, doubtful, unsound, rotten — a term used to deDote a 
suspicion of a " screw being loose," or " something rotten 
in the state of Denmark," in alluding to an unsafe specu- 
lation. 

FISH, a person ; " a queer fish," "a loose fish," &c. 

FIX, a predicament, dilemma; " an awful fix," a terrible posi- 
tion ; " to fix one's flint for him," i.e., to " settle his 
hash" " put a spoke in his wheel." 

FIZZING, first-rate, veiy good, excellent; synonymous with 

STUNNING. 

FLABERGAST, or flabberghast, to astonish, or strike with 
wonder.— Old. 

FLAG, a groat, or 4d. — Ancient cant. 

FLAG, an apron. 

FLAG OF DISTRESS, poverty— when the end of a person's 
shirt protrudes through his trousers. 

FLAM, nonsense, blarney, a lie. — Kentish ; Anglo Saxon. 

FLAME, a sweetheart. 

FLANNEL, or hot flannel, the old term for gin and beer, 
drauk hot, with nutmeg, sugar, &c. Also called flip. There 
is an anecdote told of Goldsmith helping to drink a quart of 
flannel in a night house, in company with George Parker, 
Ned Shuter, and a demure grave looking gentleman, who 
continually introduced the words crap, stretch, scrag, 
and swing. Upon the Doctor's asking who this strange 
person might be, and being told his profession, he rushed 
from the place in a frenzy, exclaiming, " Good God ! and 
have I been sitting all this while with a hangman ?" 

FLARE UP, a jovial social gathering, a "break down," a "row." 

FLASH, showy, smart, knowing ; a word with various meanings. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 141 



A person is said to be dressed flash when his garb is 
showy, and after a fashion, but without taste. A person is 
said to be flash when he apes the appearance or manners 
of his betters, or when he is trying to be superior to his 
friends and relations. Flash also means "fast," roguish, 
and sometimes infers counterfeit or deceptive, — and this, 
perhaps, is its general signification. " Flash, my young 
friend, or slang, as others call it, is the classical language 
of the Holy Land; in other words, St. Giles' Greek."— Tow 
and Jerry, by Moncreiff. Vulgar language was first termed 
flash in the year 1718, by Hitchin, author of "The Regu- 
lator of Thieves, &c-, with account of flash words." 
?LASH IT, show it — said when any bargain is offered. 

FLAT, a fool, a silly or "soft" person, the opposite of sharp. 
The term appears to be shortenings for " sharp-witted " 
and " flat-witted." " Oh ! Messrs. Tyler, Donelson, and the 
rest, what flats you are."— Times, 5th September, 1847. 

FLATTIES, rustic, or uninitiated people. 

FLATTY-KEN", a public house, the landlord of which is igno- 
rant of the practices of the thieves and tramps who fre- 
quent it. 

FLESH AND BLOOD, brandy and port in equal quantities. 

FLESH-BAG, a shirt. 

FLICK, or old flick, an old chap or fellow. 

FLICK, or flig, to whip by striking, and drawing the lash back 
at the same time, which causes a stinging blow. 

FLIM FLAMS, idle stories. — Beaumont and Fletcher. 

FLIMP, to hustle, or rob. 

FLIMSIES, bank notes. 

FLIMSY, the thin prepared copying paper used by newspaper 
reporters and "penny-a-liners" for making several copies 
at once, thus enabling them to supply different papers with 
the same article without loss of time. — Printers term. 

FLINT, an operative who works for a "society" master, i.e., 
for full wages. 

FLIP, corruption of fillip, a light blow. 

FLIP-FLAPS, a peculiar rollicking dance indulged in by coster- 
mongers when merry or excited — better described, perhaps, 
as the double shuffle, danced with an air of extreme 
abandon. 

FLIPPER, the hand ; "give us your flipper," give me your 
hand. — Sea. Metaphor taken from the flipper or paddle of 
a turtle. 



Hosted by G00gk 



142 A DICTIONARY OF 

FLOG, to whip. Cited both by Grose and the author of Bacchi* 
and Venus as a cant word. It would be curious to ascer 
tain the earliest use ; Richardson cites Lord Chesterfield.- 
Latin. 

FLOGGER, a whip.— Obsolete. 

FLOOR, to knock down. — Pugilistic. 

FLOORER, a blow sufficiently strong to knock a man down. 

FLOWERY, lodging, or house entertainment; "square theome 
for the flowery," pay the master for the lodging. 

FLUE FAKERS, chimney sweeps ; also low sporting characters 
who are so termed from their chiefly betting on the Grea 
Sweeps. 
FLUFF IT, a term of disapprobation, implying "take it away 
I don't want it." 

FLUKE, at billiards, playing for one thing and getting another 
Hence, generally what one gets accidentally, an unexpected 
advantage, " more by luck than wit." 

FLUMMERY, flattery, gammon, genteel nonsense. 

FLUMMUX, to perplex, hinder; flummuxed, stopped, used up 

FLUMMUXED, done up, sure of a month in quod, or prison 
In mendicant freemasonry, the sign chalked by rogues and 
tramps upon a gate-post or house corner, to express to suc- 
ceeding vagabonds that it is unsafe for them to call there, 
is known as 0, or fltjmmuxed, which signifies that the 
only thing they would be likely to get upon applying for 
relief would be " a month in quod." — See quod. 

FLUNKEY, a footman, servant. — Scotch. 

FLUSH, the opposite of hard up, in possession of money, not 
poverty stricken. — Shakespere. 

FLY, to lift, toss, or raise; "fly the mags;' ie., toss up the 
halfpence; "to fly a window," i.e., to lift one for the 
purpose of stealing. 

FLY, knowing, wide awake, fully understanding another's 
meaning. 

FLY THE KITE, or raise the wind, to obtain money on 
bills, whether good or bad, alluding to tossing paper 
about like children do a kite. 

FLY THE KITE, to evacuate from a window,— term used in 
padding kens, or low lodging houses. 

FLYING-MESS, " to be in flying mess" is a soldier's phrase for 
being hungry and having to mess where he can. — Military. 

FLYING STATIONERS, paper workers, hawkers of penny 



Hosted by Vj( 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 



143 



ballads; " Printed for the Flying Stationers" is the im- 
primatur on hundreds of penny histories and sheet songs 
of the last and present centuries. 
FLYMY, knowing, cunning, roguish. 

FOALED, "thrown from a horse."— Hunting term.— See purled, 
and spilt. 

FOGEY, or old fogey, a dullard, an old-fashioned or singular 
person. Grose says it is a nickname for an invalid sofdier, 
from the French, fourgeaux, fierce or fiery, but it has lost 
this signification now. Fogger, old word for a huckster or 
servant. 

FOGGY, tipsy. 

FOGLE, a silk handkerchief— not a clout, which is of cotton. 
It has been hinted that this may have come from the Ger- 
man, vogel, a bird, from the bird's eye spots on some hand- 
kerchiefs [see bird's-eye-wipe, under billy], but a more 
probable derivation is the Italian slang (Fourbesque) foglia, 
a pocket, or purse ; or from the French argot, fouille, also 
a pocket. 

FOGUS, tobacco.— Old cant. Fogo, old word for stench. 
FOONT, a sovereign, or 20s. 
FOOTING, " to pay footing."— See shoe. 

FORAKERS, a water-closet, or house of ofiice.— Term used bv 
the boys at Winchester school. 

FORK OUT, to bring out one's money, to pay the bill, to stand 
for or treat a friend ; to hand over what does not belong to 
you.— Old cant term for picking pockets, and very curioup 
it is to trace its origin. In the early part of the last c^uit 
a little book on purloining was public ^a of course it 
had to give the latest modes. Forking was the newest 
method and it consisted : u thrusting the fingers stiff and 
open into the pocket, an d then quickly closing them and 
extracting anj amC.e. 

FORKS, or grappling irons, fingers 
FORTY GUTS, vulgar term for a fat man. 
FOUR AND NINE, or four and ninepenny goss, a cheap hat 
^t?Zat^^ ViCe ^ WMch a -^^-iising 

" Whene'er to slumber you incline, 
Take a short nap at 4 and 9."— 1844. 
FOU, slightly intoxicated.— Scotch. 
FOURTH, or fourth court, the court appropriated to the 



144 A DICTIONARY OF 

water-closets at Cambridge ; from its really being No. 4 at 
Trinity College. A man leaving his room to go to this 
fourth court, writes on his door "gone to the fourth," 
or, in algebraic notation, " gone 4 "■ — the Cambridge slang 
phrase. 
FOX, to cheat or rob. — Eton College. 
FOXING, watching in the streets for any occurrence which may 

be turned to a profitable account. — See mooching. 
FOXING, to pretend to be asleep like a fox, which is said to take 

its rest with one eye open. 
FOXY, rank, tainted. — Lincolnshire. 
FREE, to steal — generally applied to horses. 
FREE AND EASY, a club held at most public houses, the mem- 
bers of which meet in the taj^room or parlour for the purpose 
of driuking, smoking, and hearing each other sing and 
"talk poliri -.'* The name indicates the character of the 
proceedings. 
FREEMAN'S QUAY- " urinking at freeman's quay," / *,., at 
alici'jcr't, GCot. This quay was formerly a celebrated 
■whuff near London Bridge, and the saying arose from the 
beer which was given gratis to porters and carmen who 
went there on business. 
FRENCH CREAM, brandy. 
FRENCH LEAVE, to leave or depart slyly, without saying 

anything. 
FRESH, said of a person slightly intoxicated. 
FRISK, to search ; frisked, searched by a constable or other 

officer. 
FRISK A CLY, to empty a pocket. 
FRIZZLE, champagne. 
FROG, a policeman. 
FRONTISPIECE, the face. 

FROW a girl, or wife. German, frau ; Dutch, vrouw. 
FRUMMAGEMMED, annihilated, strangled, garotted, or spoilt. 

— Old cant. 
FRUMP, a slatternly woman, a gossip.— Ancient. 
FRUMP, to mock, or insult.— Beaumont and Fletcher. 
FUDGE, nonsense, stupidity. Todd and Richardson only trace 
the word to Goldsmith. Disraeli, however, gives the origin 
to a Captain Fudge, a great fibber, who told monstrous 
stories, which made his crew say in answer to any impro- 



Hosted by G00gle 




MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 






145 



bability, "you fudge ib !"— See Remarks on the Navy, 
1700. 

FULLAMS, false dice, which always turn up high.— Shakes. 

FULLY, "to be fullied," to be committed for trial. From 
the slang of the penny-a-liner, "the prisoner was fully 
committed for trial." 

FUNK, to smoke out.— North. 

FUNK, trepidation, nervousness, cowardice. To funk, to be 
afraid, or nervous. 

FUNNY-BONE, the extremity of the elbow— or rather, the \' 
muscle which passes round it between the two bones, a 
blow on which causes painful tingling in the fingers. Face- 
tiously derived, from its being the extremity of the humerus 
(humorous). 

FYE-BUCK, a sixpence. Nearly obsolete. 

GAB gabber, or gabble, talk ; "gift of the gab," loquacity, or 
natural talent for speech-making.— Anglo Norman. 

GAD, a trapesing, slatternly woman.— Gipsey. Anglo Saxon, 

GADELYNG. 

GADDING THE HOOF, going without shoes. Gadding, 
roaming about, although used in an old translation of the 
Bible, is now only heard amongst the lower orders. 

GAFF, a fair, or penny-playhouse. - See penny gaff. 

GAFFING, tossing halfpence, or counters.— North, where it 
means tossing Tip three pennies. 

GALENY, old cant term for a fowl of any kind; now a respect- 
able word in the West of England, signifying a Guinea 
fowl.— Vide Grose. Latin, gallina. . 

GALLAYANT, to wait upon the ladies.— Old. 

GALORE, abundance. Irish, go leor, in plenty. 

G LLOWS, very, or exceedingly - a disgusting exclamation; 
" gallows poor," very poor. 

GA.ME, a term variously applied ; " are you game ?" have you 
courage enough ? " what's your little game ?' what are you 
going to do ? " come, none of your games," be quiet, don t 
annoy me ; " on the game," out thieving. 

GAMMON, to hoax, to deceive merrily, to laugh at a person, to 
tell an untrue but plausible story, to make game of, or in 
the provincial dialect, to make game on ; ;' who's thou 
makin' thy gam' on ?" i. e., who are you making a tool oi < 
— Yorkshire. 



1 

\ 



j^i • • * • 



^xte&W&C I K **& 



) ; 146 A DICTIONARY OF 

\ GAMMON, deceit, humbug, a false and ridiculous story. Anglo 

! Saxon, gamen, game, sport. 

GAMMY, bad, unfavourable, poor tempered. Those house- 

V holders who are known enemies to the street folk and 
v tramps, are pronounced by them to be gammy. Gammy 

^ sometimes rneaus forged, as "gammt-moneker," a forged 

V signature ; gammy stuff, spurious medicine ; gammy lowr, 
1 counterfeit coin. Bants, gamy, dirty. The hieroglyphic 

used by beggars and cadgers to intimate to those of the 
| tribe coming after that things are not very favourable, is 

known as Q , or gammy. 
fi GAMMY- VIAL (Ville), a town where the police will not let 

,|f persons hawk. 

J GANDER MONTH, the period when the monthly nurse is in 

|: the ascendant, and the husband has to shift for himself. 

") GAR, euphuistic corruption of the title of the Deity ; " be gar, 

K you don't say so !" — Franco -English. 

GARRET, the head. 
GARRET, the fob pocket. 
GARGLE, medical student Slang for physic. 
GAS, " to give a person gas," to scold him or give him a good 
' beating. Synonymous with "to give him jessie." 

GASSY, liable to "flare up" at any offence. 
GATTER, beer; "shantof gatter," a pot of beer. A curious 
street melody, brimful and running over with slang, known 
in Seven Dials as Bet, the Coaleys Daughter, thus mentions 
the word in a favourite verse : — 

" But when I strove my flame to tell 

Says she, ' Come, stow that palter,' 
If you're a cove wot likes a gal 

Vy don't you stand some gattee ? 
In coarse I 'instantly complied— 

Two brimming quarts of porter, 
With four goes of gin beside, 

Drained Bet the Coaley's daughter." 

GAWES, cheap red-skinned apples, a favourite fruit with coster- 
mongers, who rub them well with a piece of cloth, and 
find ready purchasers. 

GAWKY, a lanky, or awkward person ; a fool. Saxon, geac ; 
Scotch, GOWK. 

GAY, loose, dissipated; "gay woman," a kept mistress, or 
prostitute. 
"• •** ••QEE, to agree with, or be congenial to a person. 



I 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 



147 



GEN, a shilling. Also, gent, silver. Abbreviation of the French, 

ARGENT. 

GENT, a contraction of "gentleman," -in more senses than 
one. A dressy, showy, foppish mau, with a little mind, 
who vulgarises the prevailing fashion. 
GENT, silver. From the French, argent. 

GET-UP, a person's appearance, or general arrangements. Pro- 
bably derived from tbe decorations of a play. 
14 There's so much getting up to please the town, 
It takes a precious deal of coming down." 

Planches Mr. Bucks to-ne's Ascent of Parnassus. 

GHOST, "the ghost does'nt walk," l e. t the manager is too 
poor to pay salaries as yet.—Theat. ; Ho. Words, No. 183. 

GIB-FACE, properly the lower lip of a horse; "to hang one's 
gib," to pout the lower lip, be angry or sullen. 

GIBBERISH, unmeaning jargon ; the language of the Gipseys, 
synonymous with slang, another Gipsey word. Somner 
says, ''French, gabber ; Dutch, gabberen ; and our own 
gab, gabber ; hence also, I take it, our gibberish, a kind of 
canting language used by a sorb of rogues we vulgarly call 
Gipseys, a gibble gabble understood only among themselves." 
— Gipsey. See Introduction. 

GIFFLE GAFFLE, nonsense.— See chaff. Icelandic, gafla. 

GIFT, any article which has been stolen and afterwards sold at 
a low price. 

GIG, a farthing. Formerly, grig. 

GIG, fun, frolic, a spree. 

" In search of lark, or some delicious gig, 
The mind delights on, when 'tis in yriuu twig." 

Randall's Diary, 1820. 

GIGLAMPS, spectacles. In my first edition I stated this to be 
a University term. Mr. Cuthbert Bede, however, in a com- 
munication to Notes and Queries, of which I have availed 
myself in the present edition, says—" If the compiler has 
taken this epithet from Verdant Green, I can only say that 
I consider the word not to be a s University' word in gene- 
I ral, but as only due to the inventive genius of Mr. Bouncer 

! in particular." The term, however, has been adopted, and 

is now in general use. 
GILL, a homely woman ; " Jack and gill," ko.—Ben Jonson. 
GILLS, the lower part of the face.— Bacon. " To grease one's 

gills," " to have a good feed," or make a hearty meal. 
GILLS, shirt collars. 

l2 



j 

i 

i 

\ 



^ 



148 



A DICTIONARY OF 



L 

i 

i 
i 

r 



i 



r 



GILT, money. German, geld ; Dutch, gelt. 

GIMCRACK, a bijou, a slim piece of mechanism. Old slang 

for " a spruce wench."— N. Bailey. 
GIN AND GOSPEL GAZETTE, the Morning Advertiser, fo 

called from its being the organ of the dissenting party, and 

of the Licensed Victuallers' Association. Sometimes termed 

the tap tub, or the 'tizer. 
GINGER, a showy, fast horse— as if he had been figged with 

ginger under his tail. 
GINGERLY, to do anything with great care.— Cotgrave. 
GINGER HACKLED, having flaxen light yellow bair.-&e 

HACKLE. 

GINGUMBOB. a bauble. 

GIVE, to strike or scold ; " I'll give it to you," I will thrash 

you. Formerly, to rob. 
GLASGOW MAGISTRATES, salt herrings.— Scotch. 
GLAZE, glass — generally applied to windows. 
GLIM, a light, a lamp ; " dowse the glim," put the candle out. 

— Sea, and old cant. 
GLIM LURK, a begging paper, giving a certified account of a 

dreadful fire — which never happened. 
GLOAK, a man. — Scotch. 
GLUMP, to sulk. 

GLUMPISH, of a stubborn, sulky temper. 
GNOSTICS, knowing ones, or sharpers. Nearly obsolete in this 

vulgar sense. 

GO, a go of gin a quartern of that liquor ; go is also synonymous 
with circumstance or occurrence; " a rummy go," and "a 
great go," signify curious and remarkable occurrences; 
"no go," no good ; "here's a pretty go !" here's a trouble ! 
"to go the jump," to enter a house by the window; "all 
the go," in fashion. — See little go. 

" Gemmen (says he), you all well know 
The joy there is whene'er we meet; 
It's what I call the prvnest go, 
And rightly named, 'tis— 'quite a treat.'" 

Jack RandalCs Diary, 1820. 
GO-ALONG, a thief.— Household Words, No. 183. 
GOB, the mouth ; mucus, or saliva. — North. Sometimes used 
for gab, talk — 

"There was a man called Job, 
Dwelt in tne lanl of Uz ; 
He had a good gift of the gob ; 
The same ease happen us." 

Zach. Boyd. 



Hosted by G00gk 



1 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 149 

GOB, a portion. 

GODS, the people in the upper gallery of a theatre; " up 
amongst the gods," a seat amongst the low persons in the 
gallery — so named from the high position of the gallery, 
and the blue sky generally painted on the ceiling of the 
theatre ; termed by the french, paradis. 

GODS, the quadrats used by printers in throwing on the impos- 
ing stone, similar to the movement in casting dice. — 
Printers' term. 

GO IT, a term of encouragement, implying u keep it up!" 
Sometimes amplified to go it, te cripples ; said to have been 
a facetious rendering of the last line of VirgiVs Eclogues — 

" Ite domum Saturse, Venit Hesperus, ite capdlce ;" 
Or, " GO IT, TE CRIPPLES, CRUTCHES ARE CHEAP." 

GOLDFINCH, a sovereign. 
GOLGOTHA, .a hat, "place of a skull." 
GOLOPSHUS, splendid, delicious, luscious. — Nomoich. 
GOOSE, to ruin, or spoil. Also, to hiss a play. —Theatrical. 
GOOSE, a tailor's pressing iron. — Originally a slang term, but 

now in most dictionaries. 
GOOSEBERRY, to "play up old gooseberry" with any one, 

to defeat or silence a person in a quick or summary manner. 
GOOSECAP, a booby, or noodle. — Devonshire. 
GOOSER, a settler, or finishing blow. 

GORMED, a Norfolk corruption of a profane oath. So used by 

Mr. Peggotty, one of Dickens' characters. 
GORGER, a swell, a well dressed, or gorgeous man — probably 

derived from that word. 
GOSPEL GRINDER, a city missionary, or tract distributor. 
GOSS, a hat — from the gossamer silk with which modern hats 

are made. 
GONNOF, or gun, a fool, a bungler, an amateur pickpocket. A 
correspondent thiuks this may be a corruption of gone off, 
on the analogy of go-along ; but the term is really as old 
as Chaucer s time. During Rett's rebellion in Norfolk, in 
the reign of Edward VI. , a song was sung by the insurgents 
in which the term occurs - 

" The country gnopfes, Hob, Dick, and Sick, 
With clubbes and clouted shoon, 
Shall fill up Dus3.yn dale 

With slaughtered bodies soone." 

GOUROCK HAM, salt herrings. Gourock, on the Clyde, about 



\ 






^d0 



r 






150 A DICTIONARY OF 

twenty-five miles from Glasgow, was formerly a great fishing 
village. — Scotch. 

GOVERNMENT SIGNPOST, the gallows. 

GOVERNOR, a father, a master or superior person, an elder ; 
" which way, guv'nee, to Cheapside ?" 

GRABB, to clutch, or seize. 

GRABBED, caught, apprehended. 

GRABBERS, the hands. 

GRACE-CARD, the ace of hearts. 

GRAFT, to work; "where are you grafting?" i.e.., where do 
you live, or work ? 

GRANNY, to know, or recognise ; " de ye granny the bloke ?" 
do you know the man ? 

GRANNY, importance, knowledge, pride ; " take the granny 
off them as has white hands," viz., remove their self-conceit. 
— Mayhew, vol. i., p. 364. * 

GRAPPLING IRONS, fingers.— Sea. 

GRASS, " gone to grass," dead, — a coarse allusion to burial; 
absconded, or disappeared suddenly ; " oh, go to grass," a 
common answer to a troublesome or inquisitive person, — 
possibly a corruption of " go to grace," meaning, of course, 
a directly opposite fate. 

GRASS- WIDOW, an unmarried mother; a deserted mispress. 
In the United States, during the gold fever in Califoraia, it 
was common for an adventurer to put both bis grass -widow 
and his children to school during his absence. 

GRAVEL, to confound, to bother; "I'm gravelled," i.e., per- 
plexed or confused.— Old. 

GRAVEL- RASH, a scratched face,— telling its tale of a drunken 
fall. 

GRAY- COAT-PARSON, a lay impropriator, or lessee of great 
tithes. 

GRAYS, or scotch grays, lice. — Scotch. 

GRAYS, halfpennies, with either two " heads" or two " tails," 
— both sides alike. Low gamblers use grays, and they cost 
from 2d. to 6d. each. 

GREASE-SPOT, a minute remnant, the only distinguishable 
remains of an antagonist after a terrific contest. 

GREASING a man is bribing ; soaping is flattering him. 

GREEKS, the low Irish. St. glees' gkeek, slang or cant lan- 
guage. Cotgrave gives merie greek as a definition for a 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 151 

roystering fellow, a drunkard. — Sliahespere. — See medical 
greek. 

GREEN", ignorant, not wide awake, inexperienced. — Shahespere. 
" Do you see any green in my eye ?" ironical question in 
a dispute. 

GREEN-HORN, a fresh, simple, or uninitiated person. 

GRIDDLER, a person who sings in the streets without a printed 
copy of the words. 

GRIEF, "to come to grief," to meet with an accident, be ruined. 

GRIFFIN, in India, a newly arrived cadet; general for an 
inexperienced youngster. "Fast" young men in London 
frequently term an umbrella a griefin. 

GRIND, " to take a grind," i.e., a walk, or constitutional. — 
University. 

GRIND, to work up for an examination, to cram with a grinder, 
or private tutor. — Medical. 

GRINDERS, teeth. 

GROGGY, tipsy ; when a prize-fighter becomes " weak on his 
pins," and nearly beaten, he is said to be groggy. — Pu- 
gilistic. The same term is applied to horses in a similar 
condition. Old English, aggroggyd, weighed down, op- 
pressed. — Prompt. Parvulorum. 

GRUB, meat, or food, of any kind, — grub signifying food, and 
bub, drink. 

GRUBBING-KEN, or spinikin, a workhouse; a cook-shop. 

GRUBBY, musty, or old-fashioned. — Devonshire. 

GULFED, a University term, denotiug that a man is unable 
to enter for the classical examination, from having failed in 
the mathematical. Candidates for classical honours were 
compelled to go in for both examinations. From the alter- 
ation of the arrangements the term is now obsolete. — Canib. 

GULPIN, a weak, credulous fellow. 

GUMMY, thick, fat — generally applied to a woman's ancles, or 
to a man whose flabby person betokens him a drunkard. 

GUMPTION, or rumgumption, comprehension, capacity. From 
gaum, to comprehend ; " I canna gauge it, and I canna 
gaum it," as a Yorkshire exciseman said of a hedgehog. 

GURRELL, a fob. 

GUTTER BLOOD, a low or vulgar mm— Scotch. 

GUTTER LANE, the throat. 



! 



Hosted by G00gk 



k 

T 



152 A DICTIONARY OF 

GUY, a fright, a dowdy, an ill- dressed person. Derived from 
the effigy of Guy Fawkes carried about by boys on Nov. 5. 

GYP, an undergraduate's valet at Cambridge. Corruption of 
gypset joe (Saturday Review) ; popularly derived by Can- 
tabs from the Greek, gyps (yvyp), a vulture, from their dis- 
honest rapacity. At Oxford they are called scouts. 

HACKLE, "to show hackle," to be willing to fight. Hackles 
are the long feathers on the back of a cock's neck, which he 
erects when angry, — hence the metaphor. 

HADDOCK, a purse. — See beans. 

HALF A BEAN, half a sovereign. 

HALF A BULL, two shillings and sixpence. 

HALF A COUTER, half a sovereign. 

HALF A HOG, sixpence; sometimes termed half a grunter. 

HALF A STRETCH, six months in prison. 

HALF A TUSHEROON, half a crown. 

HALF AND HALF, a mixture of ale and porter, much affected 
by medical students ; occasionally Latinized into dimidium 
dimidiumque. — See cooper. 

HALF BAKED, soft, doughy, half-witted, silly. 

HALF FOOLISH, ridiculous; means often wholly foolish. 

HALF JACK.-, See jacks. 

HALF ROCKED, silly, half-witted.— Compare half baked. 

HALF SEAS' OYER, reeling drunk.— Sea. Used by Swift. 

HAND, a workman, or helper, a person. " A cool hand," ex- 
plained by Sir Thomas Overbury to be " one who accounts 
bashfulness the wickedest thing in the world, and therefore 
studies impudence." 

ITANDER, a second, or assistant, in a prize fight. 

HANDLE, a nose ; the title appended to a person's n ime ; also 
a term in boxing, "handling one's fists." 

HAND-SAW, or chive fencer, a man who sells razors and 
knives in the streets. 

HANDSELLER, or cheap jack, a street or open air seller, a 
man who carries goods to his customers, instead of waiting 
for his customers to visit him, 

HANG OUT, to reside,— in allusion to the ancient custom of 
hanging out signs. 

HANGMAN'S WAGES, thirteenpence halfpenny. 

HANSEL, or handsale, the lucky money, or first money taken in 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 153 

the morning by a pedlar. - Cocker's Dictionary, 1724. "Legs 
of mutton (street term for sheep's trotters, or feet) two for 
a penny; who'll give me a hansel? who'll give me a 
hansel?' — Cry at Cloth Fair at the present day. Heuce, 
earnest money, first fruits, &c. In Norfolk, hanselling a 
thing, is using it for the first time, as wearing a new coat, 
taking seizin of it, as it were. — Anglo Saxon. N. Bailey. 

HA'PURTH OF LIVELINESS, the music at a low concert, or 
theatre. 

HARD LINES, hardship, difficulty.— /Sogers' term for ha:d 
duty on the lines in front of the enemy. 

HARD UP, in distress, poverty stricken. — Sea. 

HARD-UPS, cigar-end finder3, who collect the refuse pieces of 
smoked cigars from the gutter, and having dried them, sell 
them as tobacco to the very poor. 

HARRY, or old harry {i.e. Old Hairy ?) the Devil ; " to play 
old harry with one," i.e., ruin or annoy him. 

HARRY-SOPH (epiaopos, very wise indeed), an undergraduate 
in his last year of residence. — Cambridge. 

HASH, a mess, confusion ; " a pretty hash he made of it ;" to 
hash up, to jumble together without order or regularity. 

HATCHET, "to throw the hatchet," to tell lies. 

HAWSE- HOLES, the apertures in a ship's bows through which 
the cables pass ; " he has crept in through the hawse- 
holes," said of an officer who has risen from the grade of 
an ordinary seaman. — Navy. 

HAY BAG, a woman. 

HAZY, intoxicated.— Household Words, No. 183. 

HEAD OR TAIL, " I can't make head or tail of it," i.e., cannot 
make it out. 

HEAP, "a heap of people," a crowd; "struck all of a heap," 
suddenly astonished. 

HEAVY WET, porter or beer, — because the more a man drinks 
of it, the heavier he becomes. 

HEDGE, to secure a doubtful bet by makiug others. — Turf, 

HEEL-TAPS, small quantities of wine or other beverage left in 
the bottom of glasses, considered as a sign that the liquor 
is not liked, and therefore unfriendly and unsocial to the 
host and the company. 

HEIGH HO ! a cant term for stolen yarn, from the expression 
used to apprize the dishonest nianufacturer that the speaker 
has stolen yarn to sell. — Norwich cant. 



Hosted by G00gk 



154 



A DICTIONARY OF 



HELL, a fashionable gambling house. In printing offices, the 
term is generally applied to the old tin box in which is 
thrown the broken or spoilt type, purchased bv the founders 
for re- casting. Nearly obsolete. 

HEN AND CHICKENS, large and small pewter pots. 
HEN-PECKED, said of one whose wife " wears the breeches." 
HERRING POND, the sea ; "to be sent across the herring 
pond," to be transported. 

HIDING, a thrashing. Webster gives this word, but not its 
root, hide, to beat, flay by whipping. 

HIGGLEDY-PIGGLEDY, all together, -as hogs and pigs lie. 

HIGH AND DRY, an epithet applied to the. sol disant 
u orthodox" clergy of the last century, for whom, while ill- 
paid curates did the work, the comforts of the establishment 
were its greatest charms. 

" Wherein are various ranks, and due degrees, 
The Bench for honour, and the Stall for ease." 

Though often confounded with, they are utterly dissimilar 
to, the modern High Church or Anglo-Catholic party. 
Then 1 equally uninteresting opponents deserved the corre- 
sponding appellation of low and slow; while the so-called 
" .broad Church" is defined with equal felicity as the broad 

AND SHALLOW. 

HIGH FLY, " on the high fly," on the begging or cadging 
system. 

HIGH JINKS, " on the high jinks," taking up an arrogant 
position, assuming an undue superiority. 

HIGH- FLYER, a genteel beggar, or swindler. 

HIGH FLYERS, large swings, in frames, at fairs and races. 

HIGH-LOWS, laced boots reaching a trifle higher than ancle- 
jacks. 

HIGHFALUTEN, showy, affected, tinselled, affecting certain 
pompous or fashionable airs, stuck up; "come, none of 
yer highfaluten games," i.e., you must not show off or 
imitate the swell here. — American slang from the Dutch, 
verlooten. 

HIP INSIDE, inside coat pocket. 
HIP OUTSIDE, outside coat pocket. 

HIVITE, a student of St. Begh's College, Cumberland ; pro- 
nounced ST. bee's.— University 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 155 

HOAX, to deceive, or ridicule, — Grose says was originally a 
University cant word. Corruption of hocus, to cheat. 

HOCKS, the feet ; curby hocks, round or clumsy feet. 

HOCUS, to drug a person, and then rob him. The hocus 
generally consists of snuff and beer. 

HOCUS POCUS, Gipsey words of magic, similar to the modern 
"presto fly." The Gipseys pronounce " Habeas Corpus," 
hawcds paccus (see Crabb's ^isey's AdvocaJe, p. 18); can 
this have anything to do with the origin of hocus pocus ? 
Twmer gives ochus bochus, an old demon. Pegge, bow- 
ever, states that it is a burlesque renderiug of the words of 
the unreformed church service at the delivery of the host, 
hoc est corpus, which the early Protestants considered as 
a species of conjuring, and ridiculed accordingly. 

HODGE, a countryman or provincial clown. I don't know that 
it has been elsewhere remarked, but most country districts 
in England have one or more families of the name of 
hodge ; indeed, giles and hodge appear to be the favourite 
hobnail nomenclature. Not in any way writing disrespect- 
fully, was the slang word taken from Hog — with the g 
soft, which gives the dg pronunciation ? In old canting 
dictionaries hoege stands for a country clown; so, indeed, 
does roger, another favourite provincial name. — Vide 
Bacchus and Venus. 

HOG, " to go the whole hog," to do anything with a person's 
entire strength, not " by halves ;" realised by the phrase " in 
for a penny in for a pound." Bartlett claims this to be a 
pure American phrase ; whilst Ker, of course, gives it a 
Dutch origin. — Old. 

HOG, a shilling.— Old cant. 

HOISTING, shoplifting. 

HOLLOW, " to beat hollow," to excel. 

HOLY LAND, Seven Dials,— where the St. Giles' Greek is 
spoken. 

HOOK, to steal or rob. — See the following. 

HOOK OR BY CROOK, by fair means or foul— in allusion to 
the hook which footpads used to carry to steal from open 
windows, &c, and from which hook, to take or steal, has 
been derived. Mentioned in Hudibras as a cant term. 

HOOK IT, " get out of the way," or " be off about your business ;" 
" to hook it," to run away, to decamp ; " on one's own 
hook," dependant, upou one's own exertions. — See the pre- 
ceding for derivation. 



Hosted by G00gk 



156 



A DICTIONARY OF 



HOOKS, " dropped off the hooks," said of a deceased person- 
derived from the ancient practice of suspending on hooks 
the quarters of a traitor or felon sentenced by the old law 
to be hung, drawn, and quartered, and which dropped off 
the hooks as they decayed. 

HOOKEY WALKER ! ejaculation of incredulity, usually 
shortened to walker !-~ which see. A correspondent 
thinks hookey walker may have been a certain Hugh K. 
Walker. 

HOOK-UM SNIVEY (formerly « hook and snivey"), a low ex- 
pression meaning to cheat by feigning sickness or other 
means Also a piece of thick iron wire crooked at one end, 
and fastened into a wooden handle, for the purpose of 
undoing from the outside the wooden bolt of a door. 

HOP, a dance. — Fashionable slang, 

HOP THE TWIG, to run away, or bolt, which see.— Old. 

HOP-MERCHANT, a dancing-master. 

HOPPING GILES, a cripple. St. ^Egidius or Giles, himself 
similarly afflicted, was their patron saint. The ancient 
lazar houses were dedicated to him. 

HORRID HORN", term of reproach amongst the street Irish, 
meaning a fool, or half-witted fellow. From the Erse 
omadhatjn, a brainless fellow. A correspondent suggests 
herrldan, a miserable old woman. 

HORRORS, the low spirits, or "blue devils," which follow in- 
toxication. 
HORSE, contraction of Horsemonger-lane Gaol. 

HORSE CHAUNTER, a dealer who takes worthless horses to 
country fairs and disposes of them by artifice. He is 
flexible in his ethics, and will put in a glass- eye, or perform 
other tricks. — See coper. 

HORSE NAILS, money. — Compare brads. 

HORSE'S NIGHTCAP, a halter ; " to die in a horse's night- 
cap," to be hung. 

HORSE MARINE, an awkward person. In ancient times the 
'jollies '» or Royal Marines, were the butts of the sailors, 
from their ignorance of seamanship. "Tell that to the 
marines, the bluejackets won't believe it !" was a common 
rejoinder to a " stiff yarn." Now- a- days they are deservedly 
appreciated as the finest regiment in the service. A horse 
marine (an impossibility) was used to denote one more 
awkward still. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLASG AND CANT WORDS. 157 

HOT COPPERS, the feverish sensations experienced next morn- 
ing by those who have been drunk over night. 

HOT TIGER, an Oxford mixture of hot-spiced ale and sherry. 

HOUSE OF COMMONS, a water-closet, 

HOXTER, an inside pocket. — Old English, oxter. 

HUEY, a town or village. 

HUFF, to vex, or offend ; a poor temper. 

HUFF, a dodge or trick ; " don't try that hupp on me," or " that 
huff won't do." — Norwich. 

HULK, to hang about in hopes of an invitation. — See mooch. 

HULKY, extra sized. — Shropshire. 

HUM AND HAW, to hesitate, raise objections. — Old English. 

HUMBLE PIE, to "eat humble pie," to knock under, be sub- 
missive. The umbles, or entrails of a deer, were anciently 
made into a dish for servants, while their masters feasted 
off the haunch. 

HUMBUG, an imposition, or a person who imposes upon others. 
A very expressive bub slang word, synonymous at one time 
with hum and haw. Lexicographers have fought shy at 
adopting this word. Richardson uses it frequently to ex- 
press the meaning of other words, but omits it in the alpha- 
betical arrangement as unworthy of recognition ! In the 
first edition of this work, 1785 was given as the earliest 
date at which the word could be found in a printed book. 
Since then I have traced humbug half a century farther 
back, on the title-page of a singular old jest-book — " The 
Universal Jester ; or a pocket companion for the Wits : 
being a choice collection of merry conceits, facetious 
drolleries, &c, clenchers, closers, closures, bon-mots, and 
humbugs," by Ferdinando Killigreio. London, about 
1735-40. 

I have also ascertained that the famous Orator Henley was 
known to the mob as Orator Humbug. The fact may be 
learnt from an illustration in that exceedingly curious little 
collection of Caricatures, published in 1757, many of which 
were sketched by Lord Bolingbroke — Horace Walpole filling 
in the names and explanations. Halliwell describes humbug 
as "a person who hums," and cites Dean Milles' MS., which 
was written about 1760. It has beeo stated that the word 
i§ a corruption of Hamburgh, from which town so many 
false bulletins and reports came during the war in the last 
century. " Oh, that is Hamburgh [or humbug]," was the 
answer to any fresh piece of news which smacked of im- 



Hosted by G00gk 



158 A DICTIONARY OF 

probability. Grose mentions it in his Dictionary. 1785 ; and 
in a little printed squib, published in 1808, entitled Bath 
Cliaracters, by T. Goosequill, humbug is thus mentioned in a 
comical couplet on the title page : — 

"Wee Thre Bath Deities bee, 
Humbug, Fo!lie, and Varietee." 
Gradually from this time the word began to assume a place 
in periodical literature, aud in novels not written by 
squeamish or over-precise authors. In the preface to a flat, 
and, I fear, unprofitable poem, entitled, The Reign o/ humbug, 
a Satire, 8vo., 1836, the author thus apologises for the use 
of the word— "I have used the term humbug to desiguate 
this principle [wretched sophistry of life generally], consider- 
ing that it is now adopted into our language as much as 
the words dunce, jockey, cheat, swindler, &c, which were 
formerly only colloquial terms." A correspondent, who in 
a late number of Adersaria ingeniously traced bombast to 
the inflated Doctor Paracelsus Bombast, considers that 
humbug may, in like manner, be derived from Ilomberg, the 
distinguished chemist of the court of the Duke of Orleans, 
who, according to the following passage from Bishop 
Berkeley's " Siris," was an ardent and successful seeker 
after the philosopher's stone! 

" § 191. — Of this there cannot be abetter proof than the experiment 
of Monsieur Homberg, who made gold op mebcury by in- 
troducing light into its pokes, but at such trouble and ex- 
pense, that, I suppose, nobody will try the experiment for profit. 
B, this injunction of light and mercury, both bodies became 
fixed, and produced a third different to either, to wit, real gold. 
For the truth of which pact I refer to the memoirs of the 
French Academy of Sciences." — Berkeley's Works, vol. ii., p. 366, 
(Wright's edition). 

The universal use of this term is remarkable ; in California 
there is a town called Humbug Flat — a name which gives a 
significant hint of the acuteness of the first settler. 

HUM-DRUM, tedious, tiresome, boring; "a society of gentle- 
men who used to meet near the Charter House, or at 
the King's Head, St. John's- street. They were charac- 
terised by less mystery and more pleasantry than the Free- 
masons." — Bacchus and Venus, 1737. In the West a low 
cart. 

HUMP, to botch, or spoil. 

HUMP UP, " to have one's hump up," to be cross or ill-tempered 
— like a cat with its back set up. — See monkey. 

HUMPTY DUMPTY, short and thick. 

HUNCH, to shove, or jostle. 



y Google 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 159 

HUNTER PITCHING, cockshies, or three throws a penny. —See 

COCKSHY. 

HUNTING THE SQUIRREL, when hackuey aod stage coach- 
men try to upset each other's vehicles on the public roads. 
Nearly obsolete. 

HURDY-GURDY, a droning musical instrument shaped like a 
large fiddle, and turned by a crank, used by Savoyards and 
itinerant foreign musicians in England, now nearly super- 
seded by the hand-organ. A correspondent suggests that 
the name is derived from being girded on the hardies, loins 
or buttocks.— Scotch ; Tarn oSkanter. In Italy the instru- 
ment is called viola. 

HUSH-MONEY, a sum given to quash a prosecution or 
evidence. 

HUSH -SHOP, or crib, a shop where beer or spirits is sold " on 
the quiet" — no licence beiDg paid. 

HYPS, or hypo, the blue devils. From Hypochondriasis. — Swift. 

IN, "to be in with a person," to be even witb, or up to him. 

IN FOR IT, in trouble or difficulty of any kind. 

IN FOR PATTER, waiting for trial. 

INEXPRESSIBLES, unutterables, unwhisperables, or sit- 
upons, trousers, the nether garments. 

INNINGS, earnings, money coming in ; " he's had long 
innings," i.e., a good run of luck, plenty of cash flowing 
in. 

INSIDE LINING, dinner, &c. 

INTERESTING, " to be in an interesting situation," applied 
to females when enceinte. 

INTO, "hold my hat, Jim, I'll be into him," i.e., I will fight 
him. In this sense equivalent to pitch into or slip into. 

INVITE, an invitation— a corruption used by stuck-up people 
of mushroom origin. 

IPSAL DIXAL, Cockney corruption of ipse dixit — said of one's 
simple uncorroborated assertion. 

IT'S GOOD ON THE STAR, it's easy to open. 

IVORIES, teeth ; " a box " or " cage of ivories," a set of teeth, 
the mouth ; "wash your ivories," i.e., i( drink." The word 
is also used to denote dice. 

JABBER, to talk, or chatter. A cant word in Swift's time. 

JACK, a low prostitute. 

JACK KETCH, the public hangman.— See ketch. 



Hosted by G00gk 



160 



A DICTIONARY OF 



JACK SPRAT, a diminutive bov or man. 
JACK TAR, a sailor. 

JACK- AT- A PINCH, one whose assistance is only sought on an 
emergency ; jack- in the water, an attendant at the 
watermen's stairs on the river and sea-port towns, who 
does not mind wetting his feet for a customer's conve- 
nience, in consideration of a douceur. 
JACKS, half jacks, card counters, resembling in size and 
appearance sovereigns and half-sovereigns, for which they 
are occasionally passed to simple persons. In large gam- 
bling establishments the "heaps of gold" are frequently 
composed mainly of jacks. 
JACKETING, a thrashing. 
JACKEY, gio. 

JACOB, a ladder. Grose says from Jacob's dream. — Old cant. 
JAGGER, a gentleman. — German, jager, a sportsman. 
JAIL-BIRD, a prisoner, one who has been in jail. 
JAMES, a sovereign, or twenty shillings. 
JANNOCK, sociable, fair dealing,— Norfolk. 
JAPAN, to ordaiu — University. 
J ARK, a seal, or watch ornament. — Ancient cant. 
JARVEY, the driver of a hackney coach ; jarvet's upper 

benjamin, a coachman's over-coat. 
JAW, speech, or talk ; " hold your jaw," don't speak any more ; 
" what are you jawing about?" i.e., what are you making a 
noise about ? 
JAW-BREAKERS, hard or many- syllabled words. 
JAZEY, a wig. A corruption of Jersey, the name for flax 
prepared in a peculiar manner, and of which common 
wigs were formerly made. 
JEAMES, (a generic for "flunkies.") the Morning Post newspaper 

— the organ of Belgravia and the "Haristocracy." 
JEHU, old slang term for a coachman, or one fond of driving. 
JEMMY, a crowbar. 

JEMMY, a sheep's head. — See sanguinary james. 
JEMMY JESSAMY, a dandy. 
JERRY, a beer house. 
JERRY, a chamber utensil, abbreviation of jeroboam. — Swift. 

Jerry- come-tumble, a water-closet. 
JERRY, a fog. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 161 



JERUSALEM PONY, a donkey. 

JESSIE, " to give a person jessie," to beat him soundly. — See 

GAS. 

JEW'S EYE, a popular simile for anything valuable. Probably 
a corruption of the Italian, gioje ; French, jouaille, a jewel. 
In ancient times, when a king was short of cash, he 
generally issued orders for so many Jew's eyes, or equi- 
valent sums of money. The Jews preferred paying the 
ransom, although often very heavy. We thus realise the 

, popularly believed origin of Jew's eye. Used by Shalces- 
pere. 

JEW -FENCER, a Jew street salesman. 

JIB, the face, or a person's expression ; " the cut of his JIB," i e. 
his peculiar appearance. The sail of a ship, which in posi- 
tion and shape corresponds to the nose on a person's face. — 
See gib. — Sea. 

JIB, or jibber, a horse that starts or shrinks. Shalcespere uses 

it in the sense of a worn out horse. 
JIBB, the tongue. — Gipsey and Hindoo. 
JIFFY, " in a jiffy," in a moment. 
JIGGER, a secret still, illicit spirits. — Scotch. 
JIGGER, " I'm jiggered if you will," a common form of mild 

swearing. — See snigger. 
JIGGER, a door ; " dub the jigger," shut the door. Ancient 

cant, gyger. In billiards the bridge on the table is often 

termed the jigger. 

JIGGER-DUBBERS, term applied to jailors or turnkeys. 

JILT, a crowbar or housebreaking implement. 

JINGO, " by jingo," a common form of oath, said to be a 
corruption of St. Ghifioidph. — Vide Halliwcll. 

JOB, a short piece of work, a prospect of employment. Johnson 
describes JOB as a low word, without etymology. It is, aud 
was, however, a caut word, and a job, two centuries ago, 
was an arranged robbery. Even at the preseut day it is 
mainly confined to the streets, in the sense of employment 
for a short time. Amongst undertakers a job signifies a 
funeral; "to do a JOB," conduct any one's funeral; " by 
the job," i.e., 'piece work, as opposed to ft'mc-work. A job 
in political phraseology is a Government office or contract, 
obtained by secret inflneuce or favouritism. 

To JOE BLAKE THE BARTLEMY, to visit a low woman. 

JOEY, a fourpenny piece. The term is derived (like bobby from 

M 



Hosted by G00gk 



162 A DICTIONARY OF 

Sir Robert Peel) from Joseph Hume, the late respecte 
M.P. ^ The explanation is thus given in Hawkins' History c 
the Silver Coinage of England, 

" These pieces are said to have owed their existence to the pressin 
instance of Mr. Hume, from whence they, for some time, bor 
the nickname of joeys. As they were very convenient to pa 
short cab fares, the Hon. M.P. was extremely unpopular wil 
the drivers, who frequently received only a groat where otherwis 
they would have received a sixpence without any demand fc 
change." The term originated with the London cabmen, wh 
have invented many others. 

JOG-TROT, a slow but regular trot, or pace. 

JOGUL, to play up, at cards or other game. Spanish, jugar. 

JOHN THOMAS, a generic for " flunkies," — footmen popularl; 
represented with large calves and bushy whiskers. 

JOLLY, a word of praise, or favourable notice ; "chuck Harry 
jolly, Bill !" i.e., go and praise up his goods, or buy of him 
and speak well of the article, that the crowd standing arounc 
his stall may think it a good opportunity to lay out thei; 
money. " Chuck a jolly," literally translated, is to throv 
a shout or a good word. 

JOLLY, a Royal Marine. — See horse marine. 

JOMER, a sweetheart, or favourite girl.— See blower, 

JORDAN, a chamber utensil.- Saxon. 

JOSKIN, a countryman. 

JUG, a prison, or jail. 

JUMP, to seize, or rob ; "to jump a man,'' to pounce upon him 
and either rob or maltreat him; " to jump a house," to rot 
it.— See go. 

JUNIPER, gin.— Household Words, No. 183. 

JUNK, salt beef. — See old horse. 

KEEL-HAULING, a good thrashing or mauling, rough treat- 
ment, — from the old nautical custom of punishing offenders 
by throwing them overboard with a rope attached anc 
hauling them up from under the ship's keel. 

KEEP IT UP, to prolong a debauch, or the occasion of a re- 
joicing — a metaphor drawn from the game of shuttlecock,— 
Grose. 

KEN, a house. — Ancient cant. Khan, Gipsey and Oriental. 

*a* All slang and cant words which end in ken, such as 

SPIELKEN, SPINLKEN, BAWDYKEN, Or BOOZLNGKEN, refer tc 

houses, and are partly of Gipsey origiu. 
KEN-CRACKERS, housebreakers. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 163 

KENNEDY, to strike or kill with a poker. A St. Giles' term, 
so given frOm a man of that name being killed by a poker. 
Frequently shortened to neddy. 

KENT RAG, or clout, a cotton handkerchief. 

KERTEVER-CARTZO, the venereal disease. From the Lingua 
Franca, oattivo, bad, and cazzo, the male generative 
organ. 

KETCH, or jack ketch, the popular name for a public hang- 
man — derived from a person of that name who officiated in 
the reign of Charles II. — See Macaulay's History of England, 
p. 626. 

KIBOSH, nonsense, stuff, humbug ; " it's all kibosh," i. e., palaver 
or nonsense; "to put on the kibosh," to rundown, slander, 
degrade, &c. — See bosh. 

KICK, a moment ; " I'll be there in a kick," i. e., in a minute. 

KICK, a sixpence; "two and a kick," two shillings and six- 
pence. 

KICK, a pocket. 

KICK THE BUCKET, to die. -Nor folic. According to Forby, 
a metaphor taken from the descent of a well or mine, which 
is of course absurd. The Rev. E. S. Taylor supplies me 
with the following note from his MS. additions to the work 
of the East-Anglian lexicographer : — 

" The allusion is to the way iu which a slaughtered pig is hung up, 
viz., by passing the ends of a bent piece of wood behind the 
tendons of the hind legs, and so suspending it to a hook in a 
beam above. This piece of wood is locally termed a, backet, and 
so by a coarse metaphor the phrase came to signify to die- 
Compare the Norfolk phrase " as wrong as a bucket." 
The natives of the West Indies have converted the expres- 
sion into KICKERABOO. 

KICK-UP, a noise or disturbance. 

KICK-UP, "to kick up a row, 1 * to create a tumult. 

KICKSHAWS, trifles; made, or French dishes— not English, or 
substantial. Corruption of the French, qtjelques Choses. 

KICKSIES, trousers. 

KICKSY, troublesome, disagreeable. 

KID, an infant, or child. 

KID, to joke, to quiz, to hoax anybody. 

KID- ON, to entice, or incite a person on to the perpetration of 
an act. 

KID-RIG, cheating children in the streets sent on errands, or 
entrusted with packages. Nearly obsolete. 



Hosted by G00gk 



164 A DICTIONARY OF 

KIDDEN, a low lodging house for boys. 

KIDDIER, a pork-butcher. 

KIDDILY, fashionably, or showily ; " kiddilt togg'd," showilj 
dressed. 

KIDDLE YWINK, a small shop where they retail the commo- 
dities of a village store. Also, a loose woman. 
KIDDY, a man or boy. Formerly a low thief. 
KIDDYISH, frolicsome, jovial. 

" Think on. the kiddyish spree we had on such a day." 

Randall's Diary, 1820. 

KIDMENT, a pocket-handkerchief fastened to the pocket, and 
partially hung out to entrap thieves. 

KIDNAPPER, one who steals children or adults. From kid, a 
child, and nab (corrupted to nap), to steal, or seize. 

KIDNEY, " of that kidney," of such a stamp : " strange 
kidney," odd humour; " two of a kidney," two persons 
of a sort, or as like as two peas, i.e., resembling each other 
like two kidneys in a bunch. — Old. "Attempt to put their 
hair out of kidney." — Terrce Filius, 1763. 

KIDSMAN, one who trains boys to thieve and pick pockets suc- 
cessfully. 

KILKENNY CAT, a popular simile for a voracious or desperate 
animal or person, from the story of the two cats in that 
county, who are said to have fought and bitten each other 
until a small portion of the tail of one of them alone 
remained. 

KILLING, bewitching, fascinating. The term is akin to the 
phrase " dressing to death." 

KIMBO, or a kimbo, holding the arms in a bent position from 
the body, and resting the hands upon the hips, in a bullying 
attitude. Said to be from a schembo, Italian ; but more 
probably from kimbaw, the old cant for beating, or bully' 
ing. — See Grose. 

KINCHIN, a child.— Old cant. From the German diminutive) 
ktndchen, a baby. 

KINCHIN COVE, a man who robs children ; a little man.— 
Ancient cant. 

KINGSMAN, the favourite coloured neckerchief of the coster- 
mongers. The women wear them thrown over their 
shoulders. With both sexes they are more valued than any 
other article of clothing. A coster's caste, or position, is at 
stake, he imagines, if his kingsman is not of the most 
approved pattern. When he fights, his kingsman is tied 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 165 



either around his waist as a belt, or as a garter around his 
leg. This very singular partiality for a peculiar coloured 
neckcloth was doubtless derived from the Gipseys, and 
probabty refers to an Oriental taste or custom long forgotten 
by these vagabonds. A singular similarity of taste for 
certain colours exists amongst the Hindoos, Gipseys, and 
London costermongers. Red and yellow (or orange) are the 
great favourites, and in these hues the Hindoo selects his 
turban and his robe ; the Gipsey his breeches, and his wife 
her shawl or gown ; and the costermonger his plush waist- 
coat and favourite kingsman. Amongst either class, when 
a fight takes place, the greatest regard is paid to the 
favourite coloured article of dress. The Hindoo lays aside 
his turban, the Gipsey folds up his scarlet breeches or coat, 
whilst the pugilistic costermonger of Covent Garden or 
Billingsgate, as we have just seen, removes his favourite 
neckerchief to a part of his body, by the rules of the " ring," 
comparatively out of danger. Amongst the various patterns 
of kerchiefs worn by the wandering tribes of Loudon, red 
and yellow are the oldest and most in fashion. Blue, inter- 
mixed with spots, is a late importation, probably from the 
Navy, through sporting characters. 

CING'S PICTURES (now, of course, queen's pictures), money. 
IISKY, drunk, fuddled. 

£ISS CURL, a small curl twisted on the temple. — See bow- 
catcher. 

B1ISS - ME- QUICK, the name given to the very small bonnets 

worn by females since 1850. 
KITE, see fly the kite. 

KNACKER, an old horse; a horse slaughterer. — Gloucestershire. 
KNAP, to receive, to take, to steal. 

KNAPPING- JIGGER, a turnpike-gate ; " to dub at the knapp- 
ing- jigger," to pay money at the turnpike. 

KNARK, a hard-hearted or savage person. 

KNIFE, " to knife a person," to stab, an un-English but now- 
a-days a very common expression. 

KNIFE IT, " cut it," cease, stop, don % proceed. 

KNIFE-BOARD, the seat running along the roof of an omnibus. 

KNIGHT, a common and ironical prefix to a man's calling, — 
thus, "knight of the whip," a coachman; "knight of 
the thimble," a tailor. 

KNOCK ABOUT THE BUB, to hand or pass about the drink. 



Hosted by G00gk 



166 



A DICTIONARY OF 



KNOCK DOWN, or knock me down, strong ale. 

KNOCK OFF, to give over, or abandon. A saying used h\ 

workmen about dinner, or other meal times, for upwards ol 

two centuries. 

KNOCKED UP, tired, jaded, used up, done for. In the United 
States, amongst females, the phrase is equivalent to beiD£ 
enceinte, so that Englishmen often unconsciously commit 
themselves when amongst our Yankee cousins. 

KNOCK-IN, the game of loo. 

KNOCK-OUTS, or knock-ins, disreputable persons who visil 
auction rooms and unite to buy the articles at their owr 
prices. One of their number is instructed to buy for the 
rest, and after a few small bids as blinds to the auctioneer 
and bystanders, the lot is knocked down to the knock-out 
bidders, at a nominal price— the competition to result fron 
an auction being thus frustrated and set aside. At the con- 
clusion of the sale the goods are paid for, and carried tc 
some neighbouring public house, where they are re-sold 01 
knocked-out, and the difference between the first purchase 
and the second — or tap- room knock-out — is divided 
amongst the gang. As generally happens with ill-gotten 
gains, the money soon finds its way to the landlord's pocket, 
and the knock-out is rewarded with a red nose or a bloated 
face. Cunning tradesmen join the knock-outs when an 
opportunity for money making presents itself. The lowest 
description of knock-outs, fellows with more tongue than 
capital, are termed babes, — which see. 

KNOCKING-SHOP, a brothel, or disreputable house frequented 
by prostitutes. 

KNOWING, a slang term for sharpness ; " knowing- codger," or 
" a knowing blade," one who can take you in, or cheat you, 
in any transaction you may have with him. It implies also 
deep cunning and foresight, and generally signifies dis- 
honesty. 

" Who, on a spree with black eyed Sal, his blowen, 
So swell, so prime, so nuttj' and so knowing." 

Don Juan. 
KNOWLEDGE-BOX, the head.— Pugilistic. 

KNUCKLE, to pick pockets after the most approved method. 

KNUCKLE TO, or knuckle under, to yield or submit. 

KNUCKLER, a pickpocket. 

KNULLER, old term for a chimney-sweep, who solicited jobs 

by ringing a bell. From the Saxon, cntllan, to knell, or 

sound a bell.— See querier. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 167 

IOTOOING, misapplied flattery. — Illustrated London News, 

7th January, 1860. 
KYPSEY, a basket. 

LA ! a eupliuistic rendering of lord, common amongst females 
and very precise persons ; imagined by many to be a cor- 
ruption of look ! but this is a mistake. Sometimes pro- 
nounced LAW, Or LAWKS. 
LACING, a beating. From the phrase " I'll lace your jacket." 
— L' Estrange. Perhaps to give a beating with a lace or lash. 
LADDER, " can't see a hole in a ladder," said of any one who 

is intoxicated. 
LADDLE, a lady. Term with chimney-sweeps on the 1st of 
May. A correspondent suggests that the term may come 
from the brass ladles for collecting money, always carried by 
the sweeps' ladies. 
LAG, a returned transport, or ticket-of- leave convict. 
LAG, to void urine. — Ancient cant. 
LAGGED, transported for a crime. 
LAGGER, a sailor. 

LAME DUCK, a stock jobber who speculates beyond his capital 
and cannot pay his losses. Upon retiring from the Exchange 
he is said to " waddle out of the Alley." 
LAMMING, a beating. — Old English, lam ; used by Beaumont 

and Fletcher. 
LAND LUBBER, sea term for a landsmau." — See loafer. 
LAND-SHARK, a sailor's definition of a lawyer. 
LAP THE GUTTER, to get drunk. 

LARK, fun, a joke ; " let's have a jolly good lark," let us have 
a piece of fun. Mayheio calls it " a convenient word cover- 
ing much mischief." — Anglo Saxon, lac , sport; but more 
probably from the nautical term skylarking, i.e., mounting 
to the highest yards and sliding down the ropes for 'amuse-, 
ment, which is allowed on certain occasions. 
LARRUP, to beat, or thrash. 

LARRUPING, a good beating or "hiding." — Irish. 
LATCHPAN, the lower lip — properly a dripping pan; "to hang 

one's latchpan," to pout, be sulky. — Norfolk. 
LAVENDER, " to be laid up in lavender," in pawn ; or, when 

a person is out of the way for an especial purpose. — Old. 
LAY, to watch ; " on the lay," on the look out — Shakespere. 
LED CAPTAIN, a fashionable spunger, a swell who, by artifice 



Hosted by G00gk 



168 A DICTIONARY OF 

ingratiates himself into the good graces of the master of the 

house, and lives at his table. 
LEAKY, to look, or be watchful; shy.— Old cant. 
LEARY, flash, or knowing. 

LEARY BLOAK, a person who dresses showily. 
LEATHER, to beat or thrash. From the leather belt worn by 

soldiers and policemen, often used as a weapon in street 

rows. 
LEAVING SHOP, an unlicensed house where goods are taken 

in to pawn at exorbitant rates of interest. — Daily Telegraph, 

1st August, 1859. 

LEEF, " I'd as leef do it as not," i.e., I have no objection to 
do it. — Corruption of lief, or leave. Old English, lief, 
inclined to. 

LEG IT, to run; leg bail, to run off; "to give a leg," to 
assist, as when one mounts a horse ; " making a leg," a 
coun tryman's bow, — projecting the leg from behind as a 
balance to the head bent forward. — Shahespere. 

LEGGED, in irons. 

LEGS, or blacklegs, disreputable sporting characters, and race- 
course habitues. 

LEGS OF MUTTON, inflated street term for sheeps' trotters, or 
feet. 

LENGTH, forty-two lines of a dramatic composition. — Theat. 

LENGTH, six months' imprisonment. — See stretch. 

LET DRIVE, to strike, or attack with vigour. 

LET IN, to cheat or victimise. 

LET ON, to give an intimation of having some knowledge of a 
subject. Ramsay employs the phrase in the Gentle Shepherd. 
Common in Scotland. 

LETTY, a bed. Italian, letto. 

LEVANTER, a card sharper, or defaulting gambler. A cor- 
respondent states that it was formerly the custom to give 
out to the creditors, when a person was in pecuniary diffi- 
culties, and it was convenient for him to keep away, that he 
was gone to the East, or the levant; hence, when one 
loses a bet, and decamps without settling, he is said to levant. 

LICK, a blow ; licking, a beating ; " to put in big licks," a 
curious and common phrase meaning that great exertions 
are being made. — Dryden ; North. 

LICK, to excel, or overcame ; " if you aint sharp he'll lick 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 169 

you," i.e., be finished first. Signifies, also, to whip, 
chastise, or conquer. Ancient cant, ltcke. 

LIFER, a convict who is sentenced to transportation for life. 

LIFT, to steal, pick pockets; "there's a clock been lifted," 
said when a watch has been stolen. The word is as old as 
the Border forays, and is used by Shalespere. Shoplifter 
is a recognised term. 

LIGHT, " to be able to get a light at a house" is to get credit. 

LIGHT- FEEDERS, silver spoons. 

LIGHTS, a " cake," a fool, a soft or " doughy" person. 

LIGHTS, the eyes. 

LIGHTNING, gin ; " flash o' lightning," a glass of gin. 

LIMB OF THE LAW, a lawyer, or clerk articled to that 
profession. 

LINE, calling, trade, profession; "what line are you in?" 
"the building line." 

LINGO, talk, or language. Slang is termed lingo amongst the 
lower orders. Italian, lingua. 

LIP, bounce, impudence ; " come, none o' yer lip !" 

LIQUOR, or liquor up, to drink drams. — Americanism. In 
liquor, tipsy, or drunk. 

LITTLE GO, the "Previous Examination," at Cambridge the 
first University examination for undergraduates in their 
second year of matriculation. At Oxford, the corresponding 
term is the smalls. 

LITTLE SNAKES-MAN, a little thief, who is generally passed 
through a small aperture to open any door to let in the 
rest of the gang. 

LIVE-STOCK, vermin of the insect kind. 

LOAFER, a lazy vagabond. Generally considered an Ame- 
ricanism. Loper, or loafer, however, was in general use 
as a cant term in the early part of the last century. Land- 
loper, was a vagabond who begged in 1he attire of a sailor; 
and the sea phrase, land lubber, was doubtless synony-' 
mous. — See the Times, 3rd November, 1859, for a reference 
to loafer. 

LOAVER, money.— See lour. 

LOB, a till, or money drawer. 

LOBB, the head.— Pugilistic. 

LOBLOLLY, gruel. — Old : used by Markliam as a sea term for 
grit gruel, or hasty pudding. 



Hosted by G00gk 



170 A DICTIONARY OF 

LOBLOLLY BOY, a derisive term for a surgeon's mate in the 
navy. 

LOBS, words. — Gipsey. 

LOBSTER, a soldier. A. policeman from the colour of his coat 

is styled an unboiled, or raw lobster. 
LOBSTER-BOX, a barrack, or military station. 
LOLLY, the head. — See lobb.— Pugilistic. 
LONG-BOW, "to draw," or "shoot with the long bow, 1 ' to 

exaggerate. 

LONG-TAILED-ONES, bank notes, or flimsies, for a large 
amount. 

LOOF FAKER, a chimney-sweep. — See flue eaker. 

LOOSE. — See on the loose. 

LOOT, swag, or plunder. — Hindoo. 

LOP-SIDED, uneven, one side larger thau the other. — Old. 

LOPE, this old form of leap is often heard in the streets. 

LORD, " drunk as a lord," a common saying, probably referring 
to the facilities a man of fortune has for such a grati- 
fication ; perhaps a sly sarcasm at the supposed habits of 
the " h aristocracy." 

LORD, a hump-backed man. — See my lord. 

LORD OF THE MANOR, a sixpence. 

LOUD, flashy, showy, as applied to dress or manner. — See bags. 

LOUR, or lowr, money; "gammy lowr," bad money. — 
Ancient cant, and Gipsey. 

LOUSE- TRAP, a small tooth comb. — Old cant. — See catch 'em 
alive. 

LOVE, at billiards "five to none" would be " five love," — a 
love being the same as when one player does not score at all. 

LOVEAGE, tap droppings, a mixture of spirits, sweetened and 
sold to habitual dram-drinkers, principally females. Called 
also ALLS. 

LUBBER, a clown, or fool. — Ancient cant, lubbare. 

LUBBER'S HOLE, an aperture in the maintop of a ship, by 
which a timid climber may avoid the difficulties of the 
" futtock shrouds " — hence, a sea term for any cowardly way 
of evading duty. 

LUCK, "down on one's luck,*' wanting money, or in difficulty. 

LUCKY, " to cut one's lucky," to go away quickly. — See strike. 

LUG, " my togs are in lug," i.e., in pawn. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 171 

LUG, the ear. — Scotch. 

LUG, to pull, or slake thirst. — Old. 

LUG CHOVEY, a pawnbroker's shop. 

LULLY PRIGGERS, rogues who steal wet clothes hung on lines 

to dry. 
LUMBER, to pawn or pledge.— Household Words, No. 183. 
LUMMY, jolly, first-rate. 
LUMPER, a contractor. On the river, more especially a person 

who contracts to deliver a ship laden with timber. 
LUMP THE LIGHTER, to be transported. 
LUMP WORK, work contracted for, or taken by the lump. 
LUMPERS, low thieves who haunt wharves and docks, and rob 

vessels; persons who sell old goods for new. 
LUMPY, intoxicated. 
LUNAIST, a girl.— Gipsey. 
LURK, a sham, swindle, or representation of feigned distress. 

LURKER, an impostor who travels the country with false certi- 
ficates of fires, shipwrecks, &c. 

LUSH, intoxicating drinks of all kinds, but generally used for 
beer. The Globe, 8th September, 1859, says " lush and 
its derivatives claim Lushington, the brewer, as sponsor." 

LUSH, to dvink, or get drunk. 

LUSH-CRIB, a public house. 

LUSHINGTON, a drunkard, or one who continually soaks him- 
self with drams, and pints of beer. Some years since there 
was a " Lushington Club " in Bow-street, Covent Garden. 

LUSHY, iutoxicated. Johnson says " opposite to pale," so red 
with drink. 

MAB, a cab, or hackney coach. 

MACE, a dressy swindler who victimizes tradesmen. 

MACE, to spunge, swindle, or beg, in a polite way ; " give it him 
(a shopkeeper) on the mace," i.e., obtain goods on credit and 
never pay for them; also termed " striking the mace." 

MADZA, half. Italian, mezza. This word enters into combi- 
nation with various cant phrases, mainly takeu from the 
Lingua Franca, as madza caroon, half-a-crown, two-and- 
sixpence ; madza saltee, a halfpenny [see saltee] ; madza 
poona, half'-a-sovereign ; madza round the bull, half- 
a pound of steak, &c. 



Hosted by G00gk 



172 A DICTIONARY OF 

MAG, a halfpenny. — Ancient cant, make. Meggs were formerly 

guineas. — B. M. Carew. 
MAG, to talk. A corruption of nag. — Old ; hence magpie. 
MAGGOTTY, fanciful, fidgetty. Whims and fancies were 

formerly termed maggots, from the popular belief that a 

maggot in the brain was the cause of any odd notion or 

caprice a person might exhibit. 

MAGSMAN, a street swindler, who watches for countrymen and 
" gullable" persons. 

MAHOGANY, "to have one's feet under another man's maho- 
gany," to sit at his table, be supported on other than one's 
own resources ; " amputate your mahogany," i.e., go away, 
or " cut your stick." 

MAIN-TOBY, the highway, or the main road. 

MAKE, a successful theft, or swindle. 

MAKE, to steal. 

MAKE UP, personal appearance. — Theatrical. 

MANG, to talk.— Scotch. 

MARE'S NEST, a Cockney discovery of marvels, which turn 
out no marvels at all. An old preacher in Cornwall, up to 
very lately employed a different version, viz. : " a cow 
calving up in a tree." 

MARINATED, transported ; — from the salt- pickling fish under- 
go in Cornwall. — Old cant. 

MARINE, or marine recruit, an empty bottle. This expres- 
sion having once been used in the presence of an officer of 
marines, he was at first inclined to take it as an insult, 
until some one adroitly appeased his wrath by remarking 
that no offence could be meant, as all that it could possibly 
imply was, " one who had done his duty, and was ready to 
do it again." — See horse marine. — Naval. 

MARRIAGE LINES, a marriage certificate. — Provincial. 

MARROWSKYING — See medical greek. 

MARYGOLD, one million sterling. — See plum. 

MASSACRE OF THE INNOCENTS, when the leader of the 
House of Commons goes through the doleful operation of 
devoting to extinction a number of useful measures at the 
end of the session, for want of time to pass them. — Vide 
Times, 20th July, 1859: Mr. C.Foster, on altering the 
time of the legislative sessions. — Parliamentary slang. 

MATE, the term a coster or low person applies to a friend, 
partner, or companion ; "me and my mate did so and so," 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 173 

is a common phrase with a low Londoner. — Originally a 
Sea term. 

MAULEY, a signature, from mauley, a fist; " put your fist to 
it," is sometimes said by a low tradesman when desiriDg a 
fellow trader to put his signature to a bill or note. 

MAULEY, a fist, that with which one strikes as with a mall. — 
Pugilistic. 

MAUND, to beg ; " maundering on the fly," begging of people 
in the streets. — Old cant. Maung, to beg, is a term in use 
amongst the Gipseys, and may also be found iu the Hindoo 
Vocabulary. Maund, however, is pure Anglo Saxon, from 
mand, a basket. Compare " beg," which is derived from 
bag, a curious parallel. 

MAW, the mouth ; " hold your maw," cease talking. 

MAX, gin ; max-upon tick, gin obtained upon credit. 

M. B. COAT, i.e., Marie of the Beast, a name given to the long 
surtout worn by the clergy, — a modern Puritan form of 
abuse, said to have been accidentally disclosed to a Trac- 
tarian customer by a tailor's orders to his foreman. 

MEALY-MOUTHED, plausible, deceitful. 

MEDICAL GREEK, the slang used by medical students at the 
hospitals. At the London University they have a way of 
disguising English, described by Albert Smith as the Govjer- 
street Dialect, which consists in transposing the initials of 
words, e.g-, "poke a smipe" — smoke a pipe, "flutter -by" — 
butterfly," &c. This disagreeable nonsense is often termed 
ma.rrowskying. — See greek, St. Giles' Greek, or the 
" JEgidiac 1 dialect, Language of ziph, &c. 

MENAGERY, the orchestra of a theatre. — Theatrical. 

MIDDY, abbreviation of midshipman. — Naval, 

MIDGE NET, a lady's veil. 

MIKE, to loiter; or, as a costermonger defined it, to "lnzy 
about." The term probably originated at St. Giles', which 
used to be thronged with Irish labourers (Mike being so 
common a term with them as to become a generic appella- 
tion for Irishmen with the vulgar) who used to loiter about 
the Pound, and lean against the public-houses iu the 
" Dials" waiting for hire. 

MILKY ONES, white linen rags. 

MILL, a fight, or set to. Ancient cant, myll, to rob. 

MILL, to fight or beat. 

MILL, the treadmill, prison. 



Hosted by G00gk 



k 



174 A DICTIONARY OF 

MILL-TOG, a shirt — most likely tlie prison garment. 

MISH, a shirt, or chemise. From commission, the Ancient cam 
for a shirt, afterwards shortened to k'mish or smish, anc 
then to mish. French, chemise ; Italian, camicia. 
" With his snowy camese and his shaggy capote." — Byron. 

MITTENS, &sts.— Pugilistic. 

MIZZLE, to run away, or decamp ; to disappear as in a mist 
From mizzle, a drizzling rain ; a Scotch mist. 
"And then one mizzling Michaelmas night 
The Count he mizzled too." — Hood. 

MOB. Swift informs us, in his Art of Polite Conversation, thai 
mob was, in his time, the slang abbreviation of Mobility 
just as nob is of Nobility at the present day. — See school. 

MOBILITY, the populace ; or, according to Bicrke, the " greai 
unwashed." Johnson calls it a cant term, although Swif 
notices it as a proper expression. 

MOBS, companions ; mobsmen, dressy swindlers. 

MOKE, a donkey. — Gipsey. 

MOKO, a name given by sportsmen to pheasants killed by mis- 
take in partridge shooting during September, before th< 
pheasant shooting comes in. They pull out their tails, anc 
roundly assert they are no pheasants at all, but mokos. 

MOLL, a girl; nickname for Mary. — Old cant. 

MOLL'D, followed, or accompanied by a woman. 

MOLLISHER, a low girl or woman; generally a female cohabit 
ing with a man, and jointly getting their living by thieving 

MOLLSACK, a reticule, or market basket. 

MOLL-TOOLER, a female pickpocket. 

MOLLYCODDLE, an effeminate man ; one who caudles amongsl 
the women, or does their work. 

MOLLYGRUBS, or mulligrubs, stomach-ache, or sorrow— 
which to the costermonger is much the same, as he be 
lieves, like the ancients, that the viscera is the seat of al] 
feeling. 

MOLROWING, " out on the spree" in company with so-called 
gay women." In allusion to the amatory serenadings of the 
London cats. 

MONEKEER, a person's name or signature. 

MONKEY, spirit, or ill temper; " to get one's monkey up," to 
rouse his passion. A man is said to have his monkey up. 
or the monkey on his back, when he is " riled," or out of 
temper ; also to have his back or hump up. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 175 

MONKEY, a padlock. 

MONKEY, the instrument which drives a rocket. — Army. 

MONKEY, £500. 

MONKEY WITH A LONG TAIL, a mortgage.— Ze^aZ. 

MONKEY'S ALLOWANCE, to get blows instead of alms, more 
kicks than half-pence. 

MONKERY, the country, or rut^al districts. Old word for a 
quiet, or monastic life. — Hall. 

MOOCH, to sponge ; to obtrude yourself upon friends just when 
they are about to sit down to dinner, or other lucky time — 
of course quite accidentally. — Compare hulk. To slink 
away, and allow your friend to pay for the entertainment. 
In Wiltshire, on the moutch is to shuffle. 

MOOCHING, or on the mooch, on the look out for any articles 
or circumstances which may be turned to a profitable 
account; watching in the streets for odd jobs, scraps, 
horses to hold, &c. 

MOOE, the mouth; the female generative organ. — Gijpsey and 
Hindoo, ShaJcespere has moe, to make mouths. 

MOON, a month — generally used to express the length of time 
a person has been sentenced by the magistrate; thus " one 
moon " is one month. — See drag. It is a curious fact that 
the Indians of America and the roaming vagabonds of 
England should both calculate time by the moon. 

MOONEY, intoxicated.— Household Words, No. 183. 

MOONLIGHT, or moonshine, smuggled gin. 

MOONSHINE, palaver, deception, humbug. 

MOP, a hiring place (or fair) for servants. Steps are being taken 
to put down these assemblages, which have been proved to 
be greatly detrimental to the morality of the poor. 

MOP UP, to drink, or empty a glass. — Old. 

MOPS AND BROOMS, intoxicated.— Ho. Words, No. 183. 

MOPUSSES, money ; "mopusses ran taper," money ran short. 

MORRIS, to decamp, be off. Probably from the ancient moresco, 

Or MORRIS DANCE. 

MORTAR-BOARD, the term given by the vulgar to the square 

college caps. 
MOTT, a girl of indifferent character. Formerly Mort. Butch, 

MOTT-kast, a harlotry. 
MOUNTAIN-DEW, whisky, advertised as from the Highlands. 
MOUNTAIN PECKER, a sheep's head.— See jemmy. 



Hosted by G00gk 



176 



A DICTIONARY OF 



MOUNTER, a false swearer. Derived from the borrowed clothes 
men used to mount, or dress in, when going to swear for 
consideration. 

MOUTHPIECE, a lawyer, or counsel. 

MOVE, a " dodge/' or cunning trick ; " up to a move or two,'' 
acquainted with tricks. 

MRS. JONES, the house of office, a water-closet. 

MRS. HARRIS and MRS. GAMP, nicknames of the Morning 
Herald and Standard newspapers, while united under the 
proprietorship of Mr. Baldwin. Mrs. Gamp, a monthly 
nurse, was a character in Mr. Charles Dickens' popular novel 
of Martin Chuzzlewit, who continually quoted an imaginary 
Mrs. Harris in attestation of the superiority of her qualifi- 
cations, and the infallibility of her opinions ; and thus 
afforded a parallel to the two newspapers, who appealed td 
each other as independent authorities, being all the while 
the production of the same editorial staff. 

MUCK, to beat, or excel; "it's no use, luck's set in him ; he'd 
muck a thousand." — Mayhew, vol. i, p. 18. To run a muck 
or go a mucker, to rush headlong into certain ruin. From 
a certain religious phrenzy, which is common among the 
Malays, causiug one of them, kreese in hand, to dash into 
a crowd and devote every one to death he meets with, until 
he is himself killed, or falls from exhaustion — Malay, amok, 
slaughter. 

MUCK OUT, to clean out, — often applied to one utterly ruining 
an adversary in gambling. From the Provincial muck, dirt. 

MUCK-SNIPE, one who has been "mucked out/' or beggared, 

at gambling. , 

MUCKENDEd, or MUCKENGER, a pocket handkerchief.— Old. 

MUDFOG, "The British Association for the Promotion of 
Science." — University. 

MUD -LARKS, men and women who, with their clothes tuckedj 
above knee, grovel through the mud on the batiks of the 
Thames, when the tide is low, for silver spoous, old bottles, 
pieces of iron, coal, or any articles of the least value, depo- 
sited by the retiring tide, either from passing ships or the 
sewers. Occasionally those men who cleanse the sewers 
with great boots and sou' wester hats. 

MUFF, a silly, or weak-minded parson; muff has been defined 
to be "a soft thing that holds a lady's hand without 
squeezing it." 

MUFFIN- WORRY, an old ladies' tea party. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 177 

:UFTI, the civilian dress of a naval or military officer when off 

duty. — Anglo Indian. 
[UG, to fight, or chastise. 
[UG, " to mug oneself/' to get tipsy. 
[UG, the mouth, or face. — Old. 
[UGGING, a thrashing,— synonymous with slogging, both 

terms of the " ring," and frequently used by fighting men. 
[UGGY, drunk. 
LUG-UP, to paint one's face.— Theatrical. To "cram" for an 

examination. — Army. 
[ULL, " to make a mull of it," to spoil anything, or make a 

fool of oneself. — Gipsey. 
[ULLIGKUBS.— Vide molltgrubs. 

[ULTEE KERTEVER, very bad.— Italian, molto cattivo. 
LUMMER, a performer at a travelling theatre —Ancient. 

Rustic performers at Christmas in the West of England. 
1UMPER, a beggar. — Gipsey. Possibly a corruption of mummer. 
IUNDUNGUS, trashy tobacco. Spanish, mondokgo, black 

pudding. 

IUNGARLY, bread, food. Mung is an old word for mixed 
food, but mungarly is doubtless derived from the Lingua 
Franca, mangiar, to eat. — See the following. 

1UNGARLY CASA, a baker's shop ; evidently a corruption of 
some Lingua Franca phrase for an eating house. The well 
known " Nix mangiare" stairs at Malta derive their name 
from the endless beggars who lie there and shout nix 
mangiare, i.e., "nothing ro eat," to excite the compassion 
of the English who land there, — an expression which ex- 
hibits remarkably the mongrel composition of the Lingua, 
Franca, mangiare being Italian, and Nix an evident im- 
portation from Trieste, or other Austrian seaport. 

LUNGING, or " mounging," whining, begging, muttering. — 
North. 

IUNS, the mouth. German, mund. — Old cant. 

1URERK, the mistress of the house. — See burerk. 

1URKARKER, a monkey, — vulgar cockney pronunciation of 
macauco, a species -of monkey. Jacl'ey Macauco was the 
name of a famous fighting monkey, which used about thirty 
years ago to display his prowess at the Westminster pit, 
where, after having killed many dogs, he was at last 
" chawed up " by a bull terrier. 

N 



Hosted by G00gk 



178 A DICTIONARY OF 

'MURPHY, a potato. Probably from the Irish national likii 
for potatoes, murphy being a common surname amongst tl 
Irish. — See mike. Murphies (edible) are sometimes calle 

DUNNAMANS. 

MURPHY, " in the arms of murphy," i.e., fast asleep. Co 

ruption of morpheus. 
MUSH, an umbrella. Contraction of mushroom. 
MUSH, (or mushroom) FAKER, an itinerant mender of urr 

brellas. 
MUSLIN, a woman or girl ; "he picked up a bit of muslin. 
MUTTON, a lewd woman.— Shales}} ere. 
MUTTON- WALK, the saloon at Drury Lane Theatre. 
MUZZLE, to fight or thrash. 
MUZZLE, the mouth. 

MUZZY, intoxicated.— Household Words, No. 183. 
MY AUNT, a water-closet, or house of office. 
MY LORD, a nickname given to a hunchback. 
MY TULIP, a term of endearment used by the lower orders t< 

persons and animals; " kim up, my tulip/" as the coster sai< 

to his donkey when thrashing him with an ash stick. 

MY UNCLE, the pawnbroker, — generally used when any persoi 
questions the whereabouts of a domestic article, " Oh ! onb 
at my uncle's" is the reply. Up the spout has the sam< 
meaning. 

NAB, to catch, to seize; u nab the rust," to take offence.— 
Ancient, fourteenth century. 

NABOB, an Eastern prince, a retired Indian official, — hence ; 
slang term for a capitalist. 

NAIL, to steal, or capture; "paid on the nail," i.e., readj 
money; nailed, taken up, or caught — probably in allusioi 
to the practice of nailing bad money to the counter. W< 
say '" as dead as a door-nail ;" — why ? Skdkespere hai 
the expression in Henry IV. — 

"Falstaff. What! is the old king dead? 
Pistol. As nail in door." 

A correspondent thinks the expression is only alliterative 

humour, and compares as "Flat as a Flounder," "straigh 

as a soldier," &c. 
NAM, a policeman. Evidently back slang. 
NAMBY PAMBY, particular, over nice, effeminate. This. 

think, was of Pope's invention, and first applied by him t« 



Hosted by G00gk 



r~ 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 179 

the affected short-lined verses addressed by Ambrose 
Phillips to Lord Carteret's infant children. — See Johnson's 
Life of Pope. 

FAMUS, or namous, someone, i.e., "be off, somebody is com- 
ing." — Bach slang, but general. — See vamos. 

fANNY-SHOP, a disreputable house. 

FANTEE, not any, or " I have none." Italian, niente, nothing. 
— See DINARLY. 

TANTEE PALAVER, no conversation, i.e., hold your tongue. 
— Lingua Franca. — See palaver. 

TAP, or nab, to take, steal, or receive ; " you'll nap it," i.e., 
you will catch a beating ! — North; also old cant. — Bulwers 
Paul Clifford. 

AP, or napper, a hat. From nab, a hat, cap, or head. — Old 

cant. 
AP ONE'S BIB, to cry, shed tears, or carry one's point. 
AP THE REGULARS, to divide the booty. 
AP THE TEAZE, to be privately whipped in prison. 

ARK, a person in the pay of the police ; a common informer ; 
one who gets his living by laying traps for publicans, &c. 

ARK, to watch, or look after, " nark the titter ;" watch the 

girl. 
ARP, a shirt. — Scotch. 

ARY ONE, provincial for ne'er a one, neither. 
ASTY, ill-tempered, cross-grained. 

ATION, very, or exceedingly. Corruption of damnation. 
ATTY, pretty, neat, tidj.-^Old. 
"ATURAL, an idiot, a simpleton. 
'ECK, to swallow. Neck-oil, drink of any kind. 
'ECK OR NOTHING, desperate.— Pacing phrase. 

EDDY, a life preserver. — Contraction of Kennedy, the name 
of the first man, it is said in St. Giles', who had his head 
broken by a poker. — Vide Mornings at Bow Street. 

EDDY, a donkey. 

r EDS, guineas. Half-neds, half-guineas. 
ED STOKES, the four of spades.— North Hants. -See Gentle- 
marts Magazine for 1791, p. 141. 
^EEDFUL, money, cash. 
EEDY, a nightly lodger, or tramp. 

N 2 



yGooQle 



180 A DICTIONARY OF 

NEEDY MIZZLER, a shabby person ; a tramp who runs awa 
without paying for his lodging. 

NESTS, varieties.— Ota 

NEVER-TRTJST-ME, an ordinary phrase with low Londoner 
and common in Shakespere's time, vide Twelfth Night. '. 
is generally used instead of an oath, calling vengeance o 
the asseverator, if such and such does not come to pass. 

NEWGATE FRINGE, or frill, the collar of beard worn unde 
the chin ; so called from its occupying the position of th 
rope when Jack Ketch operates. Auother name for it is 

TYBURN COLLAR. 

NEWGATE KNOCKER, the term given to the lock of hai 
which costermongers and thieves usually twist back toward 
the ear. The shape is supposed to resemble the knocker o: 
the prisoners' door at Newgate — a resemblance that woul 
appear to carry a rather unpleasant suggestion to the wearei 
Sometimes termed a cobbler's knot, or cow-lick, which set 

NEWMARKET, in tossing halfpence, when it is agreed that th 
first toss shall be decisive, the play is said to be Newmarket 

NIBBLE, to take, or steal. Nibbler, a petty thief. 

NIBS, the master, or chief person ; a man with no means bu 
high pretensions, — a "shabby genteel." 

NICK, or old nick, the evil spirit. — Scandinavian. 

NICK, to hit the mark ; " he's nicked it," i.e., won his point. 

NICK-KNACK, a trifle.— Originally cant. 

NIGGLING, trifling, or idling; taking short steps in walking.— 
North. 

NIL, half; half profits, &c. 1 

NILLY-WILLY, i.e., Nill ye, will ye, whether you will or no, i 
familiar version of the Latin, nolens volens. 

NIMMING, stealing. Immediately from the German, nehmen 
Motherwell, the Scotch poet, thought the old word nim (ti 
snatch or pick up) was derived from nam, nam, the tiuj 
words or cries of an infant, when eating anything whicli 
pleases its little palate. A negro proverb has the word :— 

" Buckra man nam crab, 
Crab nam buckra man." 

Or, in the buckra man's language — 

" Wbite man eat [or steal] the crab, 
And the crab eats the white man." 

NINCOMPOOP, a fool, a hen pecked husband, a "Jerry Sneak.'! 
— Corruption of non compos mentis. \ 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 181 

TINE CORNS, a pipeful of tobacco. 

UNES, " dressed up to the nines/' in a showy or recherche 

manner. 
FINEPENCE, "right as ninepence," all right, right to a 

nicety. 

TIP, to steal, take up quickly. 

TIPPER, a small boy. Old cant for a boy cut- purse. 
riX, nothing, " nix my doll," synonymous with nix. German, 

nichts, nothing. — See mungarly. 
HEX ! the signal word of school boys to each other that the 

master, or other person in authority, is approaching. 
FIZZIE, a fool, a coxcomb. — Old cant, vide Triumph of Wit. 
TOAH'S ARK, a long closely buttoned overcoat, recently in 

fashion. So named by Punch from the similarity which it 

exhibits to the figure of Noah and his sons in children's toy 

arks. 
]"0B, the head — Pugilistic; " bob a nob," a shilling a head. 

Ancient cant, neb. Nob is an early English word, and is 

used in the Romance of Kynge Alisaunder (thirteenth 

century) for a head ; originally, no doubt, the same as lcnob. 
JOB, a person of high position, a "swell," a wo&leman, — of 

which word it may be an abbreviation. — See snob. 
^"OBBA, nine. Italian, nove ; Spanish, nova, — the b and v 

being interchangeable, as Sevastopol and Sevastopol. 
TOBBA SALTEE, ninepence. Lingua Franca, nove soldi. 
FOBBING, collecting money ; " what nobbings ?" i.e., how 

much have you got? 
TOBBLE, to cheat, to overreach; to discover. 
GOBBLERS, confederates of thimble- rigs, who play earnestly 

as if strangers to the " rig," and thus draw unsuspecting 

persons into a game. 
TOBBY, or nobbish, fine or showy; nobbilt, showily. — See 

snob for derivation. 
rOMMUS, be off.— See namus. 
TO ODDS, no matter, of no consequence. — Latimer's sermon 

before Edward VI. 
JOSE, a thief who turns informer, or Queen's evidence ; a spy 

or watch ; " on the nose," on the look out. 
TOSE, " to pay through the nose," to pay an extravagant price. 
TOSE-BAGS, visitors at watering places, and houses of refresh- 
ment, who carry their own victuals. — Term applied by waiters. 



Hosted by G00gk 



182 A DICTIONARY OF 

NOSE EM, or fogus, tobacco. 

NOSER, a bloody or contused nose. — Pugilistic, 

NOUSE, comprehension, perception. — Old, apparently from th 
Greek, vovs. 

NUB, a husband. 

NUDDIKIN, the head. 

For Cant Numerals, see under saltee. 

NURSE, a curious term lately applied to competition in ornni 
buses. Two omnibuses are placed on the road to nursi 
or oppose, each opposition " buss," one before, the othe 
behind. Of course the central or nursed buss has very littl 
chance, unless it happens to be a favourite with the pubJi( 
Nurse, to cheat, or swindle ; trustees are said to nurs 
property, i.e., gradually eat it up themselves. 

NUT, to be " off one's nut," to be in liquor, or " all mops an: 
brooms." 

NUTS, to be nuts upon anything or person is to be please! 
with or fond of it ; a self-satisfied man is said to be nut 
upon himself. Nutted, taken in by a man who professes 
to be nuts upon you. 

NUTTY, amorous. 

NYMPH OF THE PAVE {French, pave), a street-walker 
girl of the town. 

OAK, the outer door of college rooms ; to " sport one's oak, 
to be "not at home" to visitors. — See sport. — University. 

OBFUSCATED, intoxicated. 

OBSTROPOLOUS, Cockney corruption of obstreperous. 

OCHRE, money, generally applied to gold, for a very obviou 
reason. 

O'CLOCK, or a'clock, "like one o'clock," a favourite com 
parison with the lower orders, implying briskness; "t 
know what o'clock it is," to be wide awake, sharp, an, 
experienced. 

ODD MAN, a street or public- house game at tossing. Th- 
number of players is three. Each tosses up a coin, and 
two come down head, and one tail, or vice versd, the last i 
odd man, and loses or wins as may have been agreed upoi 
Frequently used to victimise a " flat." If all three be alike 
then the toss goes for nothing, and the coppers are agai. 
c( skied." 

OD DRAT IT, od rabbit (Colmans Broad Grim), od's blooi 
and all other exclamations commencing with od, are nothin 



Hosted by GoOgk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 183 

but softened or suppressed oaths. Od is a corruption of 
god, and drat of rot. — Shakespere. 

3FF AND ON, vacillating; "an off and on kind of a chap," 
one who is always undecided. 

DFF ONE'S FEED, real or pretended want of appetite. — 
Stable slang. 

3FFISH, distant, not familiar. 

3FFICE, " to give the office," to give a hint dishonestly to a 
confederate, thereby enabling hioi to win a game or bet, 
the profits being shared. 

3GLE, to look, or reconnoitre. 

3GLES, eyes. — Old cant. French, ceil. 

3IL OF PALMS, or palm oil, money. 

3INTMENT, medical student slang for butter. 

3LD GOOSEBERRY (see gooseberry), old harry (query, Old 
Hairy ?), old scratch, all synonymes for the devil. 

3LD GOWN, smuggled tea. 

3LD HORSE, salt junk, or heet—Sea. 

3LD TOM, gin. 

3LIVER, the moon; "oliyer don't widdle," i.e., the moon 
does not shine. Nearly obsolete. — Bulwers Paul Clifford. 

3MEE, a master or landlord ; " the omee of the cassey's a nark 
on the pitch," the master of the house will not let us per- 
form. Italian, uomo, a man ; " uomo della casa," the 
master of the house. 

3N, " to be on,' 1 in public-house or vulgar parlance, is synony- 
mous with getting " tight," or tipsy ; " it's Saint Monday 
with him, I see he's on again," i.e., drunk as usual, or on 
the road to it. 

3N THE FLY, getting one's living by thieving or other illegi- 
timate means; the phrase is applied to men the same as on 
the loose is to women. 

3N THE LOOSE, obtaining a living by prostitution, in reality, 
on the streets. The term is applied to females only, ex- 
cepting in the case of sprees, when men carousing are 
sometimes said to be on the loose. 

3N THE NOSE, on the watch or look out.— See nose. 

3N THE SHELF, to be transported. With old maids it has 
another and very different meaning. 

3N THE TILES, out all night " on the spree," or carousing, — 
in allusion to the London cats on their amatory excursions. 



Hosted by G00gk 



184 A DICTIONARY OF 

ONE IN TEN, a parson. 

ONE-ER, that which stauds for one, a blow that requires n 
more. In Dickens' amusing work, the "Marchioness" tell 
Dick Swiveller that " her missus is a one-er at cards." 

ORACLE, "to work the oracle," to plan, manoeuvre, to succee* 
by a wily stratagem. 

OTTER, eightpence. — Italian, otto, eight. 

OTTOMY, a thin man, a skeleton, a dwarf. Vulgar pronuncia 
tion of Anatomy. Shahespere has 'atomy. 

OUT, a drain glass. The habitue of a gin-shop, desirous 
treating a brace of friends, calls for a quartern of gin anc 
three outs, by which he means three glasses which will 
exactly contain the quartern. 

OUT AND OUT, prime, excellent, of the first quality. Oui 
and outer, " one who is of an out and out description,'' 
UP to anything. 

An ancient MS. has this couplet, which shows the anti- 
quity of the phrase — 

" The Kyng was good alle aboute, 
And she was wycked oute and oute." 

OUT OF COLLAR, out of place, — in allusion to servants. 
When in place, the term is collared up. — Theatrical and 
general. 

OUT ON THE LOOSE, "on the spree," in search of adven 
tures. 

OUT ON THE PICKAROON. Picarone is Spanish for a 
thief, but this phrase does not necessarily mean anything 
dishonest, but ready for anything in the way of excitement 
to turn up ; also to be in search of anything profitable. 

OUT-SIDER, a person who does not habitually bet, or is not 
admitted to the " Ring." Also, a horse whose name does 
not appear among the " favourites." 

OVER ! or over the left, i.e., the left shoulder — a common 
exclamation of disbelief in what is being narrated, — im- 
plying that the results of a proposed plan will be " over 
the left," i.e., in the wrong direction, loss instead of gain. 

OWNED, a canting expression used by the ultra-Evangelicals 
when a popular preacher makes many converts. The con- 
verts themselves are called his " seals." 

P's AND Q's, particular points, precise behaviour; "mind 
your p's and q's," be very careful. Originating, according to 
some, from the similarity of p's and q's in the hornbook 
alphabet, and therefore the warning of an old dame to her 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 185 

pupils ; or, according to others, of a French dancing master 

to his pupils, to mind their pieds (feet) and queues (wigs) 

when making a bow. 
PACK, to go away; "now, then, pack off there," u., be off, 

don't stop here any longer. Old, " Malce speede to flee, be 

packing and awaie." — Baret' 's Alvearie, 1580. 
PAD, "to stand pad," to beg with a small piece of paper pinned 

on the breast, inscribed "I'm starving." 
PAD, the highway ; a tramp.— Lincolnshire. 
PAD THE HOOF, to walk, not ride; "padding the hoop on 

the high toby," trampiDg or walking on the high road. 

"Trudge, plod away o' the hoof." 

Merry Wires, i., 3. 

PADDING KENS, or cribs, tramps' and boys' lodging houses. 

PADDLE, to go or run away. — Household Words, No. 183. 

PADDY, pat, or paddy whack, an Irishman. 

" I'm paddy whack, from Bally hack, 
Not long ago turned soldier ; 
In storm and sack, in front attack, 
None other can be boulder." 

Irish Song. 

PADRE, a clergyman. — Anglo Indian. 

PAL, a partner, acquaintance, friend, an accomplice. Gipsey, a 
brother. 

PALAVER, to ask, or talk, — not deceitfully, as the term usually 
signifies; " palaver to the nibs for a shant of bivvy," ask 
the master for a quart of beer. In this sense used by 
tramps. — Derived from French, parler. 

PALL, to detect. 

PALM OIL, or PALM SOAP, money. 

PALMING, robbing shops by pairs,— one thief bargaining with 
apparent intent to purchase, whilst the other watches his 
opportunity to steal. An amusing example of palming 
came off some time since. A man entered a " ready made" 
boot and shoe shop and desired to be shown a pair of boots, 
— his companion staying outside and amusing himself by 
looking in at the window. The one who required to be 
fresh shod was apparently of a humble and deferential turn, 
for he placed his hat on the floor directly he stepped in the 
shop. Boot after boot was tried on until at last a fit was 
obtained, — when lo, forth came a man, snatched up the 
customer's hat left near the door, and down the street he 
ran as fast as his legs could carry him. Away went the 



Hosted by G00gk 



186 A DICTIONARY OF 

customer after his hat, and Crispin, standing at the door, 
clapped his hands and shouted "go it, you'll catch him," 
— little thiuking that it was a concerted trick, and that 
neither his boots nor the customer would ever return. 
Palming sometimes refers to secreting money or rings in 
the hand. 

PAM, the knave of clubs ; or, in street phraseology, Lord Pal- 
merston. 

PANNAM, food, bread. — Lingua Franca, pannen ; Latin, panis; 
Ancient cant, yannam. 

PANNAM-BOUND, stopping the prison food or rations to a 
prisoner, pannam- struck, very hungry. 

PANNIKIN, a small pan. 

PANNY, a house — public or otherwise; "flash panny," a 
public-house used by thieves ; panny men, housebreakers. 

PANTILE, a hat. The term pantile is properly applied to the 
mould into which the sugar is poured which is afterwards 
known as "loaf sugar." Thus, pantile, from whence comes 
the phrase "a sugar-loaf hat," origiDally signified a tall, 
conical hat, in shape similar to that usually represented as 
the head gear of a bandit. From pantile, the more 
modern slang term tile has been derived. Halliwell gives 
pantile shop, a meeting-house. 

PANTILE R, a dissenting preacher. Probably from the practice 
of the Quakers, and many dissenters, of not removing the 
hat in a place of worship. 

PAPER MAKERS, rag gatherers and gutter rakers — similar to 
the chiffonniers of Paris. Also, those men who tramp 
through the country, and collect rags on the pretence that 
they are agents to a paper mill. 

PAPER WORKERS, the wandering vendors of street literature ; 

street folk who sell ballads, dying speeches and confessions, 

sometimes termed running stationers. 
PARADIS, French slang for the gallery of a theatre, "up amongst 

the gods," which see. 
PARISH LANTERN, the moon. 
PARNEY, rain; " dowry of parney," a quantity of rain. Anglo- 

Lnclian slang from the Hindoo, pani, water ; Gipsey, pane. 

Old Indian officers always call brandy and water brandy 

pawnee. 
PASH, to strike ; now corrupted to bash, which see. — Shakes. 
PASTE-HORN, the nose. Shoemakers nickname any shopmate 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 18/ 

with a large nose "old pastehorn," from the horn in 
which they keep their paste. 

PATENT COAT, a coat with the pockets inside the skirts,— 
termed patent from the difficulty of picking them. 

PATTER, a speech or discourse, a pompous street oration, a 
judge's summing up, a trial. Ancient word for muttering. 
Probably from the Latin, pater noster, or Lord's Prayer. 
This was said, before the Reformation, in a loiv voice by the 
priest, until he came to, "and lead us not into temp- 
tation," to which the choir responded, "but deliver us 
from evil." In our reformed Prayer Book this was altered, 
and the Lord's Prayer directed to be said "with a loud 
voice." — Dr. Pusey takes this view of the derivation in his 
Letter to the Bishop of London, p. 78, 1851. .Scott uses the. 
word twice in Ivanhoe and the Bride of Lammermoor. 

PATTER, to talk. Patter flash, to speak the language of 
thieves, talk cant. 

PATTERERS, men who cry last dying speeches, &c, in the 
streets, and those who help off their wares by long 
harangues in the public thoroughfares. These men, to use 
their own term " are the haristocracy of the street sellers," 
and despise the costermongers for their ignorance, boasting 
that they live by their intellect. The public, they say, do not 
expect to receive from them an equivalent for their money 
—they pay to hear them talk. — Mayheiv. Patterers were 
formerly termed " mountebanks." 

PAWS, hands. 

PAY, to beat a person, or "serve them out" Originally a 
nautical term, meaning to stop the seams of a vessel with 

pitch {French, poix) ; "here's the d 1 to pat, and no 

pitch hot/' said when any catastrophe occurs which there is 
no means of averting; "to pay over face and eyes, as the 
cat did the monkey;" "to pat through the nose," to give 
a ridiculous price, — whence the origin? Shakespere uses 
pat in the sense of to beat, or thrash. 

PEACH, to inform against or betray. Webster states that im- 
peach is now the modification mostly used, and that peach 
is confined principally to the conversation of thieves and the 
lower orders. 

PEACOCK HORSE, amongst undertakers, is one with a showy 
tail and mane, and holds its bead up well, — che va favor- 
reggiando, &c, Italian. 

PEAKING, remnants of cloth. 



Hosted by G00gk 



188 A DICTIONARY OF 

PECK, food; "peck and booze," meat and drink. — Lincolnshire. 
Ancient cant, pek, meat* 

PECKER, "keep your pecker up,' 1 i.e., don't get down-hearted, 
— literally, keep your beak or bead well up, "never say die !" 

PECKISH, hungry. Old cant, peckidge, meat. 
PEEL, to strip, or disrobe. — Pugilistic. 

PEELER, a policeman; so called from Sir Robert Peel (see 
bobby) ; properly applied to the Irish constabulary rather 
than the City police, the former force having been esta- 
blished by Sir Robert Peel. 

PEEPERS, eyes ; " painted peepers/' eyes bruised or blackened 
from a blow. 

PEERY, suspicious, or inquisitive. 

PEG, brandy and soda water. 

PEG-, "to peg away," to strike, run, or drive away; "peg a 
hack," to drive a cab ; " take down a peg or two/' to check 
an arrogant or conceited person. 

PEG, a shilling. — Scotch. 

PEG-TOPS, the loose trousers now in fashion, small at the ankle 
and swelling upwards, in imitation of the Zouave costume. 

PENNY GAFFS, shops turned into temporary theatres (admis- 
sion one penny), where dancing and singing take place every 
night. Rude pictures of the performers are arranged outside 
to give the front a gaudy and attractive look, and at night- 
time coloured lamps and transparencies are displayed to 
draw an audience. 

PENNY-A-LINER, a contributor of local news, accidents, fires, 
scandal, political and fashionable gossip, club jokes, and 
anecdotes, to a newspaper; not regularly "on the paper/' 
one who is popularly believed to be paid for each contri- 
bution at the rate of a 'penny a line, and whose interest is, 
therefore, that his article should be horribly stuffed with 
epithets. 

PENISULAR, or moll tooler, a female pickpocket. 

PENSIONER, a man of the lowest morals who lives off the 
miserable earnings of a prostitute. 

PEPPER, to thrash, or strike.— Pugilistic, but used by Shakes- 
pere. — East. 

PERCH, or roost, a resting place ; " I'm off to perch/' i.e., I 
am going to bed. 

PERSUADERS, spurs. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 189 

PESKY, an intensitive expression, implying annoyance; a 
pesky, troublesome fellow. Corruption of pestilent ? 

PETER, a partridge. — Poacher's term. 

PETER, a bundle, or valise. — Buhvers Paul Clifford. 

PETER, to run short, or give out. 

PETERER, or peterman, one who follows hackney and stage 
coaches, and cuts off the portmanteaus and trunks from be- 
hind.' — Nearly obsolete. Ancient term for a fisherman, still 
used at Gravesend. 

PETTICOAT, a woman. 

PEWTER, money, like tin, used generally to signify silver ; also, 
a pewter-pot. 

PHYSOG, or phiz, the face. Swift uses the latter. Corruption 
of physiognomy. 

PIC, the Piccadilly Saloon. 

PICK, " to pick oneself up," to recover after a beating or illness ; 
"to pick a man up," "to do," or cheat him. 

PICKERS, the hands.— Slidkespere. 

PICKLE, a miserable or comical position ; " he is in a sad pickle," 
said of any one who has fallen into the gutter, or got be- 
smeared. " A pickle herring," a comical fellow, a merry 
Andrew. — Old. 

PICKLES! gammon. 

PIECE, a contemptuous term for a woman ; a strumpet. — 
Shahespere. 

PIG, or sow's baby, a sixpence. 

PIG, a mass of metal, — so called from its being poured in a fluid 
state from a sow, which see. — Workmen's term. 

PIG AND TINDER-BOX, the vulgar rendering of the well- 
known tavern sign, " Elephant and Castle" 

PEPPER-BOXES, the buildings of the Royal Academy and 
National Gallery, in Trafalgar-square. The name was first 
given by a wag, in allusion to the cupolas erected by Wilkins, 
the architect, upon the roof, and which at a distance 
sugge?t to the stranger the fact of their being enlarged 
pepper-boxes, from their form and awkward appearance. 
— See boilers. 

PIGEON, a gullible or soft person. The French slang, or argot, 
has the word pigeon, dupe — " pechon, peschon de ruby, 
apprenti gueux, enfant (sans doute de>obe)." The vaga- 
bonds and brigands of Spain also use the word in their 



Hosted by G00gk 



190 A DICTIONARY OF 

Oermania, or Rollers' Language, palomo (pigeon), ignorant, 
simple. 

PIGEON, or bluet cracking, breaking into empty houses and 
stealing lead. . 

PIG-HEADED, obstinate. 

PIG'S WHISPER, a low or inaudible whisper; also a short 

space of time, synonymous with cockstride, i.e., cock's 

tread. 

PIKE, to run away. 

PIKE, a turnpike ; " to bilk a pike," to cheat the keeper of the 
toll-gate. 

PILL, a doctor — Military. Pill-driver, a peddling apothecary. 

PIN, " to put in the pin," to refrain from drinking. From the 
ancient peg tankard, which was furnished with a row of 
pins, or pegs, to regulate the amount which each person was 
to drink. A merry pin, a roisterer. 

PINCH, to steal, or cheat; also, to catch, or apprehend. 

PINDARIC HEIGHTS, studying the odes of Pindar.— Oxford, 

PINK, to stab, or pierce. 

PINK, the acme of perfection. — ShaJcespere. 

PINNERS -UP, sellers of old songs pinned against a wall, or 
framed canvas. 

PINS, legs. 

PIPE, to shed tears, or bewail ; " pipe one's eye. — Sea term. 

" He first began to eye his pipe, 
And then to pipe his eye." 

Old Song. 

Metaphor from the boatswain's pipe, which calls to duty. 
PIPE, " to put one's pipe out/' to traverse his plans, " take a 

rise" out of him. 
PIPKIN, the stomach, — properly, an earthen round-bottomed 

pot. — Norwich. 
PIT, a breast pocket. 
PITCH, a fixed locality where a patterer can hold forth to a 

gaping multitude for at least some few minutes continuously; 

"to do a pitch in the drag," to perform in the street. 
PITCH INTO, to fight ; " pitch into him, Bill," i.e., give him 

a thrashing. 
PITCH THE FORK, to tell a pitiful tale. 
PITCH THE NOB, prick the garter, which see. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 191 

PLANT, a dodge, a preconcerted swindle; a position in the 
street to sell from. Plant, a swindle, may be thus de- 
scribed : a coster will join a party of gambling costers that 
he never saw before, and commence tossing. When suffi- 
cient time has elapsed to remove ail suspicions of com- 
panionship, his mate will come up and commence betting 
on each of his pal's throws with those standing around. 
By a curious quickness of hand, a coster can make the toss 
tell favourably for his wagering friend, who meets him in 
the evening after the play is over and shares the spoil. 

PLANT, to mark a person out for plunder or robbery, to con- 
ceal, or place. — Old cant. 

PLEBS, a term used to stigmatise a tradesman's son at West- 
minster School. Latin, plebs, the vulgar. 

PLOUGHED, drunk.— Household Words, No. 183. Also a 
University term equivalent to plucked. 

PLUCK, the heart, liver, and lungs of an animal, — all that is 
plucked away in connection with the windpipe, from the 
chest of a sheep or hog ; among low persons, courage, valour, 
and a stout heart. — See molltgrubs. 

PLUCK'D-'UN, a stout or brave fellow ; " he's a rare plucked- 
'un," i.e , dares face anything. 

During the Crimean war, plucky, signifying courageous, 
seemed likely to become a favourite term in May-Fair, even 
among the ladies. An eminent critic, however, who had 
been bred a butcher, having informed the fashionable world 
that in his native town the sheep 's head always went with 
the pluck, the term has been gradually falling into dis- 
credit at the West End. 

It has been said that a brave soldier is plucky in attack, 
and game when wounded. Women are more game than 

PLUCKY. 

PLUCKED, turned back at an examination. — University. 

PLLTNDER, a common word in the horse trade to express profit. 

Also an American- term for baggage, luggage. 
PLUM, £100,000, usually applied to the dowiy of a rich heiress, 

or a legacy. 
PLUMMY, round, sleek, jolly, or fat ; excellent, very good, first 

rate. 
PLUMPER, a single vote at an election, not a " split ticket." 
PODGY, drunk ; dumpy, short and fat. 
POGRAM, a dissenter, a fanatic, formalist, or humbug. 



Hosted by G00gle 



192 A DICTIONARY OF 

POKE, " come, none of your poking fan at me," i.e., you must 
not laugh at me. 

POKE, a bag, or sack ; " to buy a pig in a poke," to purchase 
anything without seeing it. — Saxon. 

POKER, " by the holy poker and the tumbling Tom I" an 
Irish oath. 

POKERS, the Cambridge slang term for the Esquire Bedels, whc 
carry the silver maces (also called pokers) before the Vice- 
Chancellor. 

POKY, confined or cramped ; " that corner is poky and narrow." 
— Times article, 21st July, 1859. 

POLE-AXE, vulgar corruption of policeman. 

POLICEMAN, a fly. 

POLISH OFF, to finish off anything quickly — a dinner for in- 
stance ; also to finish off an adversary. — Pugilistic. 

POLL, or polling, one thief robbing another of part of their 
booty.— Halls Union, 1548. 

POLL, the "ordinary degree" candidates for the B.A. Examina- 
tion, who do not aspire to the "Honours " list. From the 
Greek, k 7r6X\oi, "the many." Some years ago, at Cam- 
bridge, Mr. Hopkins being the most celebrated "honour 
coach," or private tutor for the wranglers, aud Mr. Potts 
the principal " crammer" of the non-honour men, the latter 
was faceiiously termed the u polly Hopkins" by the under- 
graduates. 

POLL, a prostitute; polled up, living with a woman without 
being married to her. 

POLONY, a Bologna sausage. 

POONA, a sovereign. — Corruption of pound; or from the 
Lingua Franca ? 

PONY, twenty-five pounds. — Sporting. 

POPS, pocket pistols. 

POP, to pawn or pledge ; " to pop up the spout," to pledge at 
the pawnbroker's, — an allusion to the spout up which the 
brokers send the ticketed articles until such times as they 
shall be redeemed. The spout ruus from the ground floor 
to the wareroom at the top of the house. 

POSH, a halfpenny, or trifling coin. Also a generic term for 
money. 

POSTERIORS, a correspondent insists that the vulgar sense of 
this word is undoubtedly slang (Swift, I believe, first 
applied it as such), and remarks that it is curious the word 
anterior has not been so abused. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 193 

OST-HORN", the nose. — See paste-horn. 
>OST-MORTEM, at Cambridge, the second examination which 

men who have been "plucked" have to undergo. — 

University. 

> OT, a sixpence, i.e., the price of a pot or quart of half-and- 
half. A half crown, in medical student slang, is a five-tot 

piece. 
OT, "to go to pot," to die; from the classic custom of 

putting the ashes of the dead in an urn ; also, to be ruined, or 

broken up, — often applied to tradesmen who fail in business. 

Go to pot ! i.e., go and hang yourself, shut up and be quiet. 

L'Estrange, to put the pot on, to overcharge, or exaggerate. 
:>OT, to finish; "don't pot me," term used at billiards. This 

word was much used by our soldiers in the Crimea, for 

firing at the enemy from a hole or ambush. These were 

called pot-shots. 
3 OT-HUNTER, a sportsman who shoots anything he comes 

across, having more regard to filling his bag than to the rules 

which regulate the sport. 
D OT-LUCK, just as it comes ; to take pot-luck, i.e., one's chance 

of a diuuer, — a hearty term used to signify whatever the 

pot contains you are welcome to. 

POT-WALLOPERS, electors in certain boroughs before the 
passing of the Reform Bill, whose qualification consisted in 
being housekeepers, — to establish which, it was only neces- 
sary to boil a pot within the limits of the borough, by the 
aid of any temporary erection. This implied that they 
were able to provide for themselves, and not necessitated to 
apply for parochial relief. Wallop, a word of Anglo Saxon 
derivation, from the same rout as wall. 
OTTED, or potted out, cabined, confined ; " the patriotic 
member of Parliament potted out in a dusty little lodging 
somewhere about Bury-street." — Times article, 21st July, 
1859. Also applied to burial. 

POTTY, indifferent, bad looking. 

POTATO TRAP, the mouth. A humorous Hibernicism. 

POWER, a large quantity.— Formerly Irish, but now general; 
"a power of money." 

PRAD, a horse. 

PR AD NAPPING, horse stealing. 

PRANCER, a horse. — Ancient cant. 

PRICK THE GARTER, or pitch the nob, a gambling and cheat- 

O 



Hosted by G00gk 

A 



194 A DICTIONARY OF 



ing game common at fairs, and generally practised b] 
thimble riggers. It consists of a "garter " or a piece of lis' 
doubled, and then folded up tight. The bet is made upoi 
your asserting that you can, with a pin, " prick " the poin 
at which the garter is doubled. The garter is then un 
folded, and nine times out of ten you will find that you bav< 
been deceived, and that you pricked one of the false folds 
The owner of the garter, I should state, holds the eud 
tightly with one hand. This was, doubtless, originally 
Gipsey game, and we are informed by Brand that it wa 
much practised by the Gipseys in the time of Shakespere 
In those days, it was termed pricking at the belt, or fas' 

AND LOOSE. 

PRIG, a thief Used by Addison in the sense of a coxcomb 
Ancient cant, probably from the Saxon, PRicc-AN,to filch, &c 
— Shakespere. Prig, to steal, or rob. Prigging, thievinj 
In Scotland the term prig is used in a different sense fron 
what it is in England. In Glasgow, or at Aberdeen, 
prig a salmon," would be to cheapen it, or seek for ai 
abatement in the price. A story is told of two Scotchmen 
visitors to London, who got into sad trouble a few year 
ago by announcing their intention of "prigging a hat 
which they had espied in a fashionable manufacturer' 
window, and which one of them thought he would like t< 
possess. 

PRIME PLANT, a good subject for plunder. — See plant. 
PRIMED, said of a person in that state of incipient intoxicatioi 

that if he takes more drink it will become evident. 
PRO, a professional. — Theatrical. 

PROG, meat, food, &c. Johnson calls it " a low word." I 

PROP, a gold scarf pin. 

PROP-NAILER, a man who steals, or rather snatches, pinsfror 

gentlemen's scarfs. 
PROPS, crutches. 
PROPER, very, exceedingly, sometimes ironically ; " you are 

proper nice fellow," meaning a great scamp. 
PROS, a water-closet. Abbreviated form of npbs riva tottov.- 

Oxford University. 
PROSS, breaking in, or instructing, a stage-infatuated youth.- 

Theatrical. 
PSALM- SMITER, a u Ranter," one who sings at a conventicl 

— See brisket beater. 
PUB, or public, a public-house 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 195 

PUCKER, poor temper, difficulty, deshabille. 
PUCKER, or pucker up, to get in a poor temper, 
PUCKERING, talking privately. 
PUDDING SNAMMER, one who robs a cook shop. 
PUFF, to blow up, swell with praise, was declared by a writer 
in the Weekly Register, as far back as 1732, to be illegitimate. 

" Puff has become a cant word, signifying the applause set forth by 
writers, &c, to increase the reputation and sale of a book, and 
is an excellent stratagem to excite the curiosity of gentle readers." 

Lord Bacon, however, used the word in a similar sense a 
century before. 
PULL, an advantage, or hold upon another ; " I've the pull 
over you," i.e., you are in my power — perhaps an oblique 
allusion to the judicial sense. — See the following. 
PULL, to have one apprehended ; " to be pulled up," to be 

taken before a magistrate. 
PULL, to drink; "come, take a pull at it," i.e., drink up. 
PULLEY, a confederate thief, — generally a woman. 
PUMMEL, to thrash, — from pommel. 
PUMP SHIP, to evacuate urine.— Sea. 
PURE FINDERS, street collectors of dogs' dung. 
PURL, hunting term for a fall, synonymous with foaled, or 

spilt ; " he'll get purled at the rails." 
PURL, a mixture of hot ale and sugar, with wormwood infused 
in it, a favourite morning drink to produce an appetite ; 
sometimes with gin and spice added : — 
" Two penn'orth o' puel— 
Good ' early ptjel,' 
'Gin all the world 
To put your hair into a curl, 
When you feel yourself queer of a morninV 
PUSH, a crowd. — Old cant. 

PUSSEY-CATS, corruption of Puseyites,*, name constantly, but 
improperly, given to the "Tractarian" party in the Church,, 
from the Oxford Regius Professor of Hebrew, who by no 
means approved of the Romanising tendencies of some of 
its leaders. 
PUT, a game at cards. 

PUT THE POT ON, to bet too much upon one horse.— Sporting. 
PUT UP, to suggest, to incite, " he put me up to it ;" to have 
done with ; put it up, is a vulgar answer often heard in the 
streets. Put up, to stop at an hotel or tavern for entertain- 
ment. 

o 2 



Hosted by GoOgle 



196 A DICTIONARY OF 

PUT UPO^, cheated, deluded, oppressed. 

PYGOSTOLE, the least irreverent of names for the peculiar 

" M.B." coats worn 07 Tractarian curates." — 

" It is true that the wicked make sport 

Of our pygostoles, as we go by ; 

And one gownsman, in Trinity Court, 

Went so far as to call me a ' Guy,' " 

QUARTEREEN, a farthing. — Gibraltar term Ital., quattrino. 

QUEAN (not queen), a strumpet. 

QUEER, an old cant word, once in continual use as a prefix, sig- 
nifying base, roguish, or worthless, — the opposite of rum, 
which signified good and genuine. Queer, in all probability, 
is immediately derived from the cant language. It has been 
mooted that it came into use from a quaere (?) being set before 
a man's name ; but it is more than probable that it was 
brought into this country by the Gipseys from Germany, 
where quer signifies "cross" or "crooked." At all events, 
it is believed to have been first used in England as a cant 
word. 

QUEEN BESS, the Queen of Clubs,— perhaps because that 
queen, history says, was of a swarthy complexion.— North 
Hants. — See Gentleman's Magazine for 1791, p. 141. 

QUEER, "to queer a flat," to puzzle or confound a "gull" or 
silly fellow. 

" Who in a row like Tom could lead the van, 
Booze in the fam, or at the spellken hustle ? 
Who quees a fiat," &c. 

Don Jvxim, canto xi., 19. 

QUEER BAIL, worthless persons who for a consideration would 
stand bail for any one in court. Insolvent Jews generally 
performed this office, which gave rise to the term jew-bail. 
— See mounters : both nearly obsolete. 

QUEER BIT-MAKERS, coiners. 

QUEER SCREENS, forged bank notes. 

QUEER SOFT, bad money. 

QUEER STREET, " in queer street," in difficulty or in want. 

QUEER CUFFEN, a justice of the peace, or magistrate — a very 
ancient term, mentioned in the earliest slang dictionary. 

QUERIER, a chimney-sweep who calls from house to house, — 
formerly termed knuller, which see. 

QUI- HI, an English resident at Calcutta. — Anglo Indian. 

QUICK STICKS, in a hurry, rapidly ; " to cut quick sticks," 
to be in a great hurry. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 197 



QUID, or thick UN, a sovereign ; " half a quid," half a sovereign ; 
quids, money generally ; "quid for a quod," one good turn 
for another. The word is used by Old French writers : — 

" Des testamens qu'on dit le maistre 
De mon fait a' aura quid ne quod." 

Grand Testament de Villon. 

QUID, a small piece of tobacco — one mouthful. Quid est hoc ? 
asked one, tapping the swelled cheek of another; hoc est 
quid, promptly replied the other, exhibiting at the same 
time "a chaw" of the weed. Probably a corruption of 

CUD. 

QUIET, "on the quiet," clandestinely, so as to avoid obser- 
vation, "under the rose." 

QUILL-DRIVER, a scrivener, a clerk - satirical phrase similar 
to steel- bar-driver, a tailor. 

^UILT, to thrash, or beat. 

QUISBY, bankrupt, poverty stricken.— Ho. Words, No. 183. 

^UIZ, a prying person, an odd fellow. Oxford slang; lately 
admitted into dictionaries. Not noticed by Johnson. 

IJUIZ, to pry, or joke. 

QUIZZICAL, jocose, humorous. 

QUOCKERWODGER, a wooden toy figure, which, when pulled 
by a string, jerks its limbs about. The term is used in a 
slang sense to signify a pseudo-politician, one whose strings 
of action are pulled by somebody else. — West. 

^UOD, a prison, or lock up ; quodded, put in prison. A slan^ 
expression used by Mr. Hughes, in Tom Brown's Schooldays 
(Macmillan's Magazine, January, 1860), throws some light 
upon the origin of this now very common street term : — 
" Flogged or whipped in quad," says the delineator of 
student life, in allusion to chastisement inflicted within the 
Quadrangle of a college. Quadrangle is the term given to 
the prison inclosure within which culprits are allowed to 
walk, and where whippings were formerly inflicted. Quad- 
rangle also represents a building of four sides ; and to be 
" within four walls," or prison, is the frequent slang 
lamentation of unlucky vagabonds. 

BABBIT, when a person gets the worst of a bargain he is said 
" to have bought the rabbit." 

RACKET, a dodge, manoeuvre, exhibition ; a disturbance. 

RACKETY, wild or noisy. 

RACKS, the bones of a dead horse. Term used by horse 
slaughterers. 



Hosted by G00gk 



198 A DICTIONARY OF 

RACLAN", a married woman.— Gipsey. 

RAFE, or RALPH, a pawnbroker's duplicate. — Norwich. 

RAG, to divide or share; "let's rag it," or go rags, i.e., share 
it equally between us. — No-notch. 

RAGAMUFFIN", a tattered vagabond, a tatterdemalion. 

RAG SPLAWGER, a rich man. 

RAGS, bank notes. 

RAG-SHOP, a bank. 

RAIN" NAPPER, umbrella. 

RAISE THE WIND, to obtain credit, or money — generally by 
pawning or selling off property. 

RAMP, to thieve or rob with violence. 

RAMPSMAN", a highway robber who uses violence when neces- 
sary. 

RAMSHACKLE, to shatter as with a battering ram; ram- 
shackled, knocked about, as standing corn is after a high 
wind. Corrupted from ram-shatter, or possibly from ran- 
sack. 

RANDOM, three horses driven in line, a very appropriate term. 
— See TANDEM. 

RANDY, rampant, violent, warm, amorous. North, randy- 
beggar, a gipsey tinker. 

RAN -TAN, "on the ran-tan/' drunk.— No. Words, No. 183. 

RANTIPOLE, a wild noisy fellow. 

RAP, a halfpenny ; frequently used genetically for money, thus : 
"I hav'nt a rap," i.e., I have no money whatever; "I 
don't care a rap," &c. Originally a species of counterfeit 
coin used for small change in Ireland, against the use oi 
which a proclamation was issued, 5th May, 1737. Small 
copper or base metal coins are still called Rappen in the 
Swiss cantons. Irish robbers are called rapparees. 

RAP, to utter ; " he rapped out a volley of oaths." 

RAPPING, enormous ; " a rapping big lie." 

RAPSCALLION, a low tattered wretch. 

RAT, a sneak, an informer, a turn-coat, one who changes his 
party for interest. The late Sir Robert Peel was called the 
rat, or the tamworth ratcatcher, for altering his views 
on the Roman Catholic question. From rats deserting 
vessels about to sink. 

RAT, term amongst printers to denote one who works undei 
price. Old cant for a clergyman. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 199 

RATHER ! a ridiculous street exclamation synonymous with 

yes ; " do you like fried chickens ?" " rather !" " are you 

going out of town ?" " rather !" 
RATHER OF THE RATHEREST, a phrase applied to any- 
thing slightly in excess or defect. 
RATTLECAP, an unsteady, volatile person. 
RATTLER, a cab, coach, or cart.— Old cant. 
RATTLERS, a railway; "on the rattlers to the stretchers," 

i.e., going to the races by railway. 
RAW, uninitiated ; a novice. — Old. Frequently a johnny raw. 
RAW, a tender point, a foible ; " to touch a man up on the raw '' 

is to irritate one by alluding to, or joking him on, anything 

on which he is peculiarly susceptible or " thin-skinned." 
READER, a pocket-book; "give it him for his reader/' i.e., 

rob him of his pocket-book. — Old cant. 
READY, or ready gilt (properly gelt), money. Used by 

Arbuthnot, "Lord Strut was not very flush in ready. 
REAM, good or genuine. From the Old cant, rum. 
REAM-BLOAK, a good man. 
RECENT INCISION", the busy thoroughfare on the Surrey side 

of the Thames, known by sober people as the new cut. 
REDGE, gold. 
RED HERRING, a soldier. 
RED LANE, the throat. 

RED LINER, an officer of the Mendicity Society. 
RED RAG, the tongue. 
REGULARS, a thief's share of the plunder. " They were quar- 

relliug about the regulars. "—-Times, 8th January, 1856. 
RELIEVING OFFICER, a significant term for a father.— Univ. 
RENCH, vulgar pronunciation of rinse. " Wrench your mouth 

out," said a fashionable dentist one day. — North. 
RE-RAW, "on the re-raw," tipsy or drunk. — Household Words, 

No. 183. 
RHINO, ready money. 

RHINOCERAL, rich, wealthy, abouuding in rhino. 
RIB, a wife.— North. 
RIBBONS, the reins.— Middlesex. 
RIBROAST, to beat till the ribs are sore,— Old; but still in 

use : — 

" And he departs, not meanly boasting 
Of his magnificent liiBKOASTiNG." — Hudibr.is, 



Hosted by G00gk 



200 A DICTIONARY OF 

ETCH, spicy; also used in the sense of "too much of a good 
thing ;" " a rich idea," one too absurd or unreasonable to be 
adopted. 

RIDE, "to RIDE THE HIGH HORSE," Or RIDE ROUGH-SHOD over 

one, to be overbearing or oppressive ; to ride the black 
donkey, to be in an ill bumour. 

RIDER, in a University examination, a problem or question 
appended to another, as directly arising from or depeudent 
on it; — beginning to be generally used for any corollary or 
position which naturally arises from any previous statement 
or evidence. 

RIG, a trick, "spree," or performance; " run a rig," to play a 
trick — Gi'psey ; "rig the market," in reality to play tricks 
with it, — a mercantile slang phrase often used in the news- 1 
papers. 

RIGGED, " well rigged," well dressed. — Old slang, in use 1736. 
— See Bailey's Dictionary . — Sea. 

RIGHT AS NINEPENCE, quite right, exactly right. 

RIGHTS, "to have one to rights," to be even with him, to 
serve him out. 

RIGMAROLE, a prolix story. 

RILE, to offend, to render very cross, irritated, or vexed. Pro- 
perly, to render liquor turbid. — Norfolk. 

RING, a generic term given to horse-racing and pugilism, — the 
latter is sometimes termed the prize-ring. From the 
practice of forming the crowd into a ring around the com- 
batants, or outside the race-course. 

RING, "to go through the ring," to take advantage of the In- 
solvency Act, or be whitewashed. 

RING DROPPING, see pawnet. 

RINGING CASTORS, changing hats. | 

RINGING THE CHANGES, changing bad money for good. 

RIP, a rake ; " an old rip," an old libertine, or debauchee.; 
Corruption of Reprobate. A person reading the letters 
R. I. P. {Requiescat in Pace) on the top of a tombstone as one] 
word, said, soliloquising, "Rip ! well, he was an old rip, and 
no mistake. — Cuthbert Bede. 

RIPPER, a first-rate man or article. — Provincial. | 

RIPPING, excellent, very good. 

RISE, "to take a rise out of a person," to mortify, outwit, or 
cheat him, by superior cunning. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 201 

USE (or raise) A BARNEY, to collect a mob. 

SOAKER, a broken-winded horse. 

SOARING TRADE, a very successful business. 

*OAST, to expose a persou to a running fire of jokes at bis 

expense from a whole company, in his presence. Quizzing 

is done by a single person only. 
3,OCK A LOW, an overcoat. Corruption of the French roque- 

LAURE. 

LOCKED, "he's only half-rocked," i.e., half witted. 

ROLL OF SNOW, a piece of Irish linen. 

ROMANY, a Gipsey, or the Gipsey language; the speech of the 

Roma or Zincali. — Spanish Gipsey. 
ROOK, a clergyman, not only from bis black attire, but also, 
perhaps, from the old nursery favourite, the History of 
Cock Robin. 

" I, says the book, 
With my little book, 
I'll be the parson." 

ROOK, a cheat, or tricky gambler ; the opposite of pigeon.— Old. 

ROOKERY, a low neighbourhood inhabited by dirty Irish and 
thieves— as ST. giles' rookery. — Old. In Military slang 
that part of the barracks occupied by subalterns, often by 
no means a pattern of good order. 

ROOKY, rascally, rakish, scampish. 

ROOST, synonymous with perch, which see. 

ROOTER, anything good, or of a prime quality; "that is a 
rooter," i.e., a first-rate one of the sort. 

ROSE, an orange. 

ROSE, " under the rose" (frequently used in its Latin form, 
Sub rosd), i.e., under the obligation of silence and secresy, 
of which the rose was anciently an emblem, perhaps, as 
Sir Thomas Browne remarks, from the closeness with which 
its petals are enfolded in the bud. The Rose of Venus was 
given, says the classic legend, to Harpocrates, the God of 
Silence, by Cupid, as a bribe not to "peach" about the 
Goddess' amours. It was commonly sculptured on the 
ceilings of banquetting rooms, as a sign that what was said 
in free conversation there was not afterwards to be divulged 
and about 1526 was placed over the Roman confessionals as 
an emblem of secrecy. The White Rose was also an 
emblem of the Pretender, whose health, as king, his secret 
adherents used to drink " under the rose.' ' 



Hosted by G00gk 



202 A DICTIONARY OP 

ROT, nonsense, anything bad, disagreeable, or useless. 

ROT GUT, bad small beer, — in America, cheap whisky, 

ROUGH, bad ; " rough fish," bad or stinking fish. 

ROUGH IT, to put up with chance entertainment, to take poi 
luck, and what accommodation " turns up," without sighing 
for better. Roughing it in the Bush" is the title of ar 
interesting work on Backwoods life. 

ROUGHS, coarse, or vulgar men. 

ROULEAU, a packet of sovereigns. — Gaming. 

ROUND, to tell tales, to 'split," which see; "to round on •< 
man," to swear to him as being the person, &c. Synonymous 
with " bufe," which see. Shakespere has rounding, whis 
pering. 

ROUND, u round dealing," honest trading; " round sum," e 
large sum. Synonymous also in a slang sense with square, 
which see. 

ROUNDS, shirt collars — apparently a mere shortening of "Al! 

Rounds," or "All Rounders," names of fashionable collars. 
ROUNDS (in the language of the street), the beats or usual 

walks of the costermonger to sell his stock. A term used 

by street folk generally. 

" Watchmen, sometimes they made their sallies, 
And walk'd their bounds through streets and allies." 

JStd Ward's Valgus Britcumieus, 1710. 

ROUND ROBIN, a petition, or paper of remonstrance, with the 
signatures written in a circle, — to prevent the first signer ; 
or ringleader, from being discovered. 

ROUNDABOUTS, large swings of four compartments, each the 
size, and very much the shape, of the body of a cart, 
capable of seating six or eight boys and girls, erected in a 
high frame, and turned round by men at a windlass. Fairs 
and merry-makings generally abound with them. The 
frames take to pieces, and are carried in vans by miserable 
horses, from fair to fair, &c. 

ROW, a noisy disturbance, tumult, or trouble. Originally 
Cambridge, now universal. Seventy years ago it was written 
roue, which would indicate a French origin from roue, a 
profligate, or disturber of the peace. — Vide George Parker's 
Life's Painter, 1789, p. 122. 

ROWDY, money. In America, a ruffian, a brawler, " rough." 

ROWDY-DOW, low, vulgar ; " not the cheese," or thing. 

RUB, a quarrel, or impediment: "there's the rub," i.e., that is 
the difficulty. — Shakespere and IS Estrange. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 203 

UBBER, a term at whist, &c,, two games out of three.— Old, 
1677. 

UCK, the undistinguished crowd ; " to come in with, the ruck," 
to arrive at the winning post among the non-winning horses, 
— Racing term. 

UGGY, fusty, frowsy, 

UM, like its opposite, queer, was formerly a much used prefix, 
signifying, fine, good, gallant, or valuable, perhaps in some 
way connected with Rome. Now-a-days it means indifferent, 
bad, or questionable, and we often hear even persons in 
polite society use such a phrase as " what a rum fellow he 
is, to be sure," in speaking of a man of singular habits or 
appearance. The term, from its frequent use, long since 
claimed a place in our dictionaries ; but, with the exception 
of Johnson, who says rum, a cant word for a clergyman (?), 
no lexicographer has deigned to notice it. 
" Thus EUMLxfloor'd, the kind Acestes ran, 
And pitying, rais'd from earth the g-anie old man." 

Viegil's Mneiv, book v., Translation by Thomas Moore. 

IUMBUMPTIOUS, haughty, pugilistic. 

RUMBUSTIOUS, or rumbustical, pompous, haughty, boiste- 
rous, careless of the comfort of others. 
JtUMGUMPTION, or gumption, knowledge, capacity, capability, 

hence, rumgumptious, knowing, wide-awake, forward, 

positive, pert, blunt. 
RUM MIZZLERS, persons who are clever at making their escape, 

or getting out of a difficulty. 
RUMPUS, a noise, disturbance, a " row." 
EtUMY, a good woman, or girl.— Gipsey slang .^ In the^ regular 

Gipsey language, romi, a woman, a wife, is the feminine of 

ro, a man ; and in the Robber's Language of Spain (partly 

Gipsey), rumi signifies a harlot. 
RUN (good or bad), the success of a performance— Theatrical. 
RUN, to comprehend, &c. ; "I don't run, to it," i.e., I can't do 

it, or I don't understand, or I have not money enough. — 

North. 
RUN, " to get the run upon any person," to have the upper 

hand, or be able to laugh at them. Run down, to abuse or 

backbite anyone. 
PUNNING PATTERER, a street seller who runs or moves 
I briskly along, calling aloud his wares. 
jRUNNING STATIONERS, hawkers of books, ballads, dying 

speeches, and newspapers. They formerly used to run with 



yGooQle 



204 A DICTIONARY OF 

newspapers, blowing a horn, when they were also terme 

FLYING STATIONERS. 

RUSH, " doing it on the rush," running away, or making off. 
RUST, " to nab the rust," to take offence. Rusty, cross, il 

tempered, morose, one who cannot go through life like 

person of easy and polished manners. 

RUSTY GUTS, a blunt, rough old fellow. Corruption of ruj 

ticus. 

SACK, " to get the sack," to be discharged by an employer. 
SADDLE, an additional charge made by the manager to a per 

former upon his benefit night.— Theatrical. 
SAD DOG, a merry fellow, a joker, a gay or " fast " man. 
SAINT MONDAY, a holiday most religiously observed fr 
journeymen shoemakers, and other mechanics. An Irishmai 
observed that this saint's anniversary happened every week 
— North, where it is termed cobblers' Monday. 
SAL, a salary. — Theatrical. 

SALAMANDERS, street acrobats, and jugglers who eat fire. 

SALOOP, salep, or salop, a greasy, looking beverage, formerly 

sold on stalls at early morning, prepared from a powder 

made of the root of the Orchis mascula, or Red-handed 

Orchis. Within a few years coffee stands have superseded 

saloop stalls, but Charles Lamb, in one of his papers, has 

left some account of this drinkable, which he says was of 

all preparations the most grateful to the stomachs of young 

chimney-sweeps. 

SALT, *' its rather too salt," said of an extravagant hotel bill 

SALT BOX, the condemned cell in Newgate. 

SALTEE, a penny. Pence, &c, are thus reckoned : — 

Oney saltee, a penny, from the JM., uno soldo. 

Dooe salteb, twopence due soldi. 

Tray saltee, threepence tre soldi. 

Quarterer saltee, fourpence . . . quattro soldi. 
Chinker saltee, fivepence ... ... cinque soldi. 

Say saltee, sixpence sei soldi. 

Say oney saltee, or setter saltee, 

sevenpence sette soldi. 

Say dooe saltee, or otter saltee, 

eightpence otto soldi. 

Say tray saltee, or nobba saltee, 

ninepence nove soldi 

Say quarterer saltee, or dacha 

saltee, tenpence dieci soldi. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODEEN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 205 

SAT CH1NKER SALTEE, or DACHA ONE 

saltee, elevenpence dieci UNO soldi, &c. 

Oney beong, one shilling. 

A beong say saltee, one shilling; and sixpence. 

Dooe beong say saltee, or madza caroon, half-a-crown, 

or two shillings and sixpence. 

*#* This curious list of numerals in use among the Lon- 
don street folk is, strange as it may seem, derived from the 
Lingua Franca, or bastard Italian, of the Mediterranean 
seaports, of which other examples may be found in the pages 
of this Dictionary. Saltee, the cant term used by the 
costermongers and others for a penny, is no other than the 
Italian, soldo (plural, soldi), and the numerals — as may be 
seen by the Italian equivalents — are a tolerably close imita- 
tion of the originals. After the number six, a curious vari- 
ation occurs, which is peculiar to the London cant, seven 
being reckoned as say oney, six-one, say dooe, six-two = 8, 
and so on. Dacha, I may remark, is perhaps from the 
Greek, deka (Ssku), ten, which, in the Consrantinopolitan 
Lingua Franca, is likely enough to have been substituted 
for the Italian. Madza, is clearly the Italian mezza. The 
origin of beong I have not been so fortunate as to discover, 
unless it be the F, encli, bien, the application of which to a 
shilling is not so evident; but amongst costermongers and 
other street folk, it is quite immaterial what foreign tongue 
contributes to their secret language. Providing the terms 
are unknown to the police and the public generally, they 
care not a rushlight whether the polite French, the gay 
Spaniards, or the cloudy Germans helped to swell their 
vocabulary. The numbers of low foreigners, however, 
dragging out a miserable existence in our crowded neigh- 
bourhoods, organ grinders and image sellers, foreign seamen 
from the vessels in the river, and our own connection with 
Malta and the Ionian Isles, may explain, to a certain extent, 
the phenomenon of the^e Southern phrases in the mouths 
of costers and tramps. 

ALT JUNK, navy salt beef. — See old horse. 

ALVE, praise, flattery, chaff. 

AM, to " stand sam," to pay for refreshment, or drink, to stand 
paymaster for anythiug. An Americanism, originating in 
the letters U.S. on the knapsacks of the United States sol- 
diers, which letters were jocularly said to be the initials of 
Uncle Sam (the Government), who pays for all. In use in 
this country as early as 1827. 



Hosted by G00gk 



206 A DICTIONARY OF 

SANGUINARY JAMES, a sheep's head,— See bloody jemmy, 

SANK WORK, making soldiers' clothes. Mayhew says from t 
Norman, sang, blood, — in allusion either to the soldie 
calling, or the colour of his coat. 

SAP, or sapscull, a poor green simpleton, with no heart f 

work. 
SAUCEBOX, a mouth, also a pert young person. 
SAVELOY, a sausage of chopped beef smoked, a minor kind 

POLONY. 

SAVEY, to know; " do you savey that ?" — French, savez voi 
cela ? In the nigger and Anglo Chinese patois, this issABB 
" me no sabby." The Whatnpoa slang of this description 
very extraordinary ; from it we have got our word cash 

SAW YOUR TIMBER, "beoff!" equivalent to cut your stic 

— See cut. 
SAWBONES, a surgeon, 
SAWNEY, or sandy, a Scotchman. Corruption of Alexander. 
SAWNEY, a simpleton. 

SAWNEY", bacou. Sawney hunter, one who steals bacon 
SCAB, a worthless person. — Old. Shahespere uses scald in 

similar sense. 
SCALDRUM DODGE, burning the body with a mixture of acic 

and gunpowder, so as to suit the hues and complexions ( 

the accident to be deplored. 
SCALY, shabby, or mean. Shakespere uses scald, an old wor 

of reproach. 
SCAMANDER, to wander about without a settled purpose 

possibly iu allusion to the winding course of the Homeri 

river of that name. 
SCAMMERED, drunk. 
SCAMP, a graceless fellow, a rascal ; formerly the cant term fc 

plundering and thieving. A royal-scamp was a highway 

man, whilst a foot -scamp was an ordinary thief with nothir 

but his legs to trust to in case of an attempt at capture 

Some have derived scamp from qui ex campo exit, viz., or 

who leaves the field, a deserter. 

SCARPER, to run away. — Spanish, escapar, to escape, make off 
Italian, scappare. " Scarper with the feele of the donD 
of the cassey," to run away with the daughter of the lane" 
lady of the house ; almost pure Italian, " scappare coll 
jlglia delta donna della casa." 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 207 

7HISM-SHOP, a dissenters' meeting-house. — University. 

CHOFEL, bad money. — See show full. 

HOOL, or mob, two or more "patterers" working together in 
the streets. 

CHOOLING, a low gambling party. 

CHWASSLE BOX, the street performance of Punch and Judy. 

—Household Words, No. 183. 
CONCE, the head, judgment, sense.— Butch. 

CORE, "to run up a score at a public house/' to obtain credit 
there until pay day, or a fixed time, when the debt must be 

WIPED OFF. 

COT, a quantity of anything, a lot, a share. — Anglo Saxon, 
sceat, pronounced shot. 

COT, temper, or passion, — from the irascible temperament of 
that nation ; " oh ! what a scot he was in," i.e., what temper 
he showed, — especially if you allude to the following. 

ICOTCH FIDDLE, the itch ; " to play the scotch fiddle," to 
work the index finger of the right band like a fiddlestick 
between the index and middle finger of the left. This pro- 
vokes a Scotchmen in the highest degree, it implying that 
he is afflicted with the itch. 

SCOTCH GRAYS, lice. Oar northern neighbours are calum- 
niously reported, from their living on oatmeal, to be 
peculiarly liable to cutaneous eruptions and parasites. 

SCOTCHES, the legs ; also synonymous with notches. 

SCOUT, a college valet, or waiter. — Oxford. — See gyp. 

;>CRAG, the neck. — Old cant. Scotch, craig. Still used by 
butchers. Hence, scrag, to hang by the neck, and scragging, 
an execution, — also old cant. 

SCRAN, pieces of meat, broken victuals. Formerly the reckon- 
ing at a public-house. Scranning, begging for broken 
victuals. Also, an Irish malediction of a mild sort, " Bad 
scran to yer !" 

feCRAPE, a difficulty ; scrape, low wit for a shave. 

SCRAPE, cheap butter ; " bread and scrape," the bread and 
butter issued to school-boys — so called from the butter 
being laid on, and then scraped off again, for economy's sake. 

SCRAPING CASTLE, a water-closet. 

SCRATCH, a fight, contest, point in dispute ; " coming up to 
the scratch," going or preparing to fight— in reality, ap- 



Hosted by G00gk 



208 a DICTIONARY OF 

preaching the line usually chalked on the ground to divic 

the ring. — Pugilistic. 
SCRATCH, "no great scratch," of little worth. 
SCRATCH, to strike a horse's name out of the list of runners i 

a particular race. " Tomboy was scratched for the Derb 

at 10, a.m., on Wednesday," from which period all be*! 

made in reference to him (with one exception) are void. — S< 

P.P.— T-wrf. 

SCRATCH-RACE (on the Turf), a race where any horse, agec 
winner, or loser, can run with any weights; in fact, a rac 
without restrictions. At Cambridge a boat-race, where th 
crews are drawn by lot. 

SCREAMING, first-rate, splendid. Believed to have been firs 
used in the Adelphi play-bills; " a screaming farce," on 
calculated to make the audience scream with laughter. No 
a general expression. 

SCREEVE, a letter, a begging petition. 

SCREE VE, to write, or devise ; " to screeve a fakement,' 
concoct, or write, a begging letter, or other impostor's docu 
ment. From the Dutch, schryven ; German, schreibejnt 
French, ecrivant (old form), to write. 

-SCREEVER, a man who draws with coloured chalks on th' 
pavement figures of our Saviour crowned with thorns 
specimens of elaborate writing, thunderstorms, ships on fire 
&c. The men who attend these pavement chalkings, anc 
receive halfpence and sixpences from the admirers of stree 
art, are not always the draughtsmen. The artist, 
screever, drew, perhaps, in half-a-dozen places that ven 
morning, and rented the spots out to as many cadaverous 
looking men. 

SCREW, an unsound, or broken-down horse, that requires botl 
whip and spur to get him along. 

SCREW, a key, — skeleton, or otherwise. 

SCREW, a turnkey. 

SCREW, a mean or stingy person. I 

SCREW, salary or wages. 

SCREW, "to put on the screw," to limit one's credit, to be 
more exact and precise. 

SCREW LOOSE, when friends become cold and distant towards 
each other, it is said ttiere is a screw loose betwixt them 
said also when anything goes wrong with a person's credit 
or reputation. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 209 

■CREW, a small packet of tobacco. 
■CREWED, intoxicated or drunk. 

CR1MMAGE, or scrummage, a disturbance or row. — Ancient. 
Corruption of skirmish ? 

CROBY, " to get scrobt," to be whipped in prison before the 
justices. 

CROUGE, to crowd or squeeze. — Wiltshire. 

CRUFF, the back part of the neck seized by the adversary in 
an encounter. 

CRUMPTIOUS, nice, particular, beautiful. 

CUFTER, a policeman. — North country. 

CULL, or skull, the head or master of a college. — University, 
but nearly obsolete ; the gallery, however, in St. Mary's (the 
University church), where the '•' Heads of Houses " sit in 
solemn state, is still nicknamed the golgotha by the under- 
graduates. 

CURF, a mean fellow. 

EALS, a religions slang term for converts. — See owned. 

EEDY, worn out, poverty stricken, used up, shabby. Meta- 
phorical expression from the appearance of flowers when off 
bloom and running to seed; hence said of one who wears 
clothes until they crack and become shabby ; " how seedy 
he looks," said of any man whose clothes are worn thread- 
bare, with greasy facings, and hat brightened up by per- 
spiration and continual polishing and wetting. When a 
man's coat begins to look worn out and shabby he is said 
to look seedy and ready for cutting. This term has been 
" on the streets" for nearly two centuries, and latterly has 
found its way into most dictionaries. Formerly slang, it is 
now a recognised word, and one of the most expressive in 
the English language. The French are always amused with 
it, they having no similar term. 

ELL, to deceive, swindle, or play a practical joke upon a person- 
A sham is a sell in street parlance. " Sold again, and got 
the money," a costermouger cries after haying successfully 
deceived somebody. Sliakespere uses selling in a similar 
sense, viz., blinding or deceiving. 

ELL, a deception, disappointment; also a lying joke. 

ENSATION, a quartern of gin. 

ERENE, all right ; " it's all serene," a street phrase of very 
modern adoption, the burden of a song. 

ERVE OUT, to punish, or be revenged on any one. 

P 



Hosted by G00gk 



210 A DICTIONARY OF 

SETTER, sevenpence. Italian, sette. — See saltee. 
SETTER, a person employed by the vendor at an auction to rn 

the biddings up ; to bid against bond fide bidders. 
SETTLE,, to kill, ruin, or effectually quiet a person. 
SETTLED, transported. 
SET TO, a sparring match, a fight ; " a dead set," a determine 

stand, in argument or in movement. 
SEVEN PENNORTH, transported for seven years. 
SEWED-UP, done up, used up, intoxicated. Dutch, seeuw 

sick. 
SHACK, a " chevalier d'industrie." 
SHACKLY, loose, rickety. — Devonshire. 
SHAKE, a prostitute, a disreputable man or womaD. — North. 
SHAKE, to take away, to steal, or run off with anything ; "whi 

shakes, Bill ?" " None," i.e., no chance of committing 

robbery. — See the following. 
SHAKE, or shakes, a bad bargain is said to be "no gre; 

shakes ;" " pretty fair shakes " is anything good or favoui 

able. — Byron. In America, a fair shake is a fair trade or 

good bargain. 
SHAKE LURK, a false paper carried by an impostor, givin; 

account of a "dreadful shipwreck/' 
SHAKER, a shirt. 
SHAKESTER, or shickster, a prostitute. Amongst coster 

mongers this term is invariably applied to ladies, or th 

wives of tradesmen, and females generally of the classe 

immediately above them. 
SHAKY, said of a person of questionable health, integrity, o 

solvency ; at the University, of one not likely to pass hi 

examination. 
SHALER, a girl. 

SHALLOW, a flat basket used by costers. 
SHALLOWS, " to go on the shallows," to go half naked. 
SHALLOW-COVE, a begging rascal who goes about the countr 

half naked, — with the most limited amount of rags upon hi 

person, wearing neither shoes, stockings, nor hat. 
SHALLOW-MOT, a ragged woman,— the frequent companion c 

the SHALLOW-COVE. 
SHALLOW-SCREEVER, a man who sketches and draws on ih 

pavement.— See screever. 
SHAM ABRAHAM, to feign sickness.— See Abraham. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 211 

SHANDY- GAFF, ale and ginger beer; perhaps sang de goiff, 
the favourite mixture of one goff, a blacksmith. 

SHANKS, legs. 

SHANKS' NAG, " to ride shanks' nag," to go on foot. 

SHANT, a pot or quart; " shant of bivvy," a quart of beer. 

SHAPES, "to cut up" or "show shapes," to exhibit pranks, or 
flightiness. 

SHARP, or sharper, a cunning cheat, a rogue, — the opposite of 

FLAT. 

SHARP'S-ALLEY BLOOD WORMS, beef sausages and black 
puddings. Sharp's-alley was very recently a noted slaughter- 
ing place near Smithfield. 

3HARPING-0MEE, a policeman. 

SHARK, a sharper, a swindler. Bow-street term in 1785, now 
in most dictionaries. — Friesic and Danish, schurk. — See 

LAND -SHARK. 

SHAVE, a false alarm, a hoax, a sell. This was much used in 
the Crimea during the Russian campaign. 

SHAVE, a narrow escape. At Cambridge, "just shaving 
through," or "making a shave," is just escaping a "pluck" 
by coming out at the bottom of the list. 

" My terras are anything but dear, 
Then read with me, and never fear ; 
The examiners we're sure to queer, 
And get through, if you make a shave on't." 

The Private Tutor. 

SHAVER, a sharp fellow ; " a young" or " old shaver," a boy or 

man. — Sea. 
3HEEN, bad money. — Scotch. 
SHEEP'S EYES, " to make sheep's eyes at a person," to cast 

amorous glances towards one on the sly : — 

" But he, the beast, was casting sheep's exes at her^ 
Out of his bullock head." 

Colman, Broad Grins, p. 57. 

SHEEP'S FOOT, an iron hammer used in a printing office, the 
end of the handle being made like a sheep's foot. 

SHELF, " on the shelf," not yet disposed of ; young ladies are 
said to be so situated when they cannot meet with a 
husband ; " on the shelf," pawned. 

SHELL OUT, to pay or count out money. 

SHICE, nothing; "to do anything for shice," to get no pay- 
ment. The term was first used by the Jews in the last 

p 2 



Hosted by GoOgk 



212 A DICTIONARY OF 

century. Grose gives the phrase chice-am-a- trice, which 
has a synonymous meaning. Spanish, chico, little ; Anglo 
Saxon, chiche, niggardly. 

SHICER, a mean man, a humbug, a "duffer," — a person who 

is either worthless or will not work. 
SHICKERY, shabby, bad. 

SHICKSTER ; a prostitute, a lady.— See shakester. 
SH1LLY SHALLY, to trifle or fritter away time ; irresolute. 

Corruption of Shall I, shall I ? 
SHINDY, a row, or noise. 
SHINE, a row, or disturbance. 
SHINE, "to take the shine out of a person," to surpass or 

excel him. 
SHINER, a looking-glass. 
SHINERS, sovereigns, or money. 
SHINEY RAG, "to winthesniNEY rag," to be ruined,— said 

in gambling, when any one continues betting after " luck 

has set in against him." 
SHIP-SHAPE, proper, in good order; sometimes the phrase is 

varied to " ship-shape and Bristol fashion." — Sea. 
SHIRTY, ill-tempered, or cross. When one person makes 

another in an ill humour he is said to have " got his shirt 

out." 
SHITTEN-SATURDAY (corruption of shut~in-saturday), the 

Saturday between Good Friday and Easter Sunday, when 

our Lord's body was enclosed in the tomb. 
SHIVERING JEMMY, the name given by street folk to any 

cadger who exposes himself, half naked, on a cold day, to 

excite pity and procure alms. The " game " is unpleasant, 

but exceedingly lucrative. 
SHODDY, old cloth worked up into new; also, a term of derision 

applied to workmen in woollen factories. — YorJcshire. 
SHOE, to free, or initiate a person,— a practice common in most 

trades to a new comer. The shoeing consists in paying for 

beer, or other drink, which is drunk by the older hands. 

The cans emptied, and the bill paid, the stranger is considered 

properly shod. 
SHOE LEATHER ! a thief's warning cry, when he hears foot- 
steps. This exclamation is used in the same spirit as Bruoe's 

friend, who, when he suspected treachery towards him at 

King Edward's court, in 1306, sent him a purse and a pair 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 213 

of spurs, as a sign that be should use them in making his 
escape. 

SHOES, " to die in one's shoes," to be hung. 

SHOOL, to saunter idly, become a vagabond, beg rather than 
work.— Smollett s Roderick Random, vol. i., p. 262. 

SHOOT THE CAT, to vomit. 

SHOOT THE MOON, to remove furniture from a house in the 
night, without paying the landlord. 

SHOOT WITH THE LONG BOW, to tell lies, to exaggerate. 
Synonymous with throwing the hatchet. 

SHOP BOUNCER, or shop lifter, a persou generally respectably 
attired, who, while being served with a small article at a 
shop, steals one of more value. ShaJcespere has the word 
lifter, a thief. 

SHOPPING, purchasing at shops. Termed by Todd a slang 
word, but used by Coivper and Byron. 

SHORT, when spirit is drunk without any admixture of water, 
it is said to be taken " short ;" " summat short," a dram. A 
similar phrase is used at the counters of banks ; upon pre- 
senting a cheque, the clerk asks, " how will you take it ?" 
i.e. , in gold, or in notes ? Should it be desired to receive it 
in as small a compass as possible, the answer is, " short.'' 

SHORT COMMONS, short allowance of food.— See commons. 

SHOT, from the modern sense of the word to shoot, —a guess, 
a random conjecture ; " to make a bad shot," to exoose one s 
ignorance by making a wrong guess, or random answer 
without knowing whether it is right or wrong. 

SHOT, from the once English, but now provincial word, to 
shoot, to subscribe, contribute in fair proportion ;— a 
share, the same as scot, both being from the Anglo 
Saxon word, sceat ; " to pay one's shot," i.e., share of the 
reckoning, &c. 

SHOT, "I wish I may be shot, if," &c, a common form of mild 
swearing. 

SHOVE-HALFPENNY, a gambling street game. 

SHOWFULL, or schofell, a Hansom cab,— said to have been 
from the name of the inventor. — Led de hor qu. 

SHOW-FULL, or schoftjl, bad money. Maykew thinks this 
word is from the Danish, skuffe, to shove, to deceive, cheat ; 
Saxon, scufan, — whence the English, shove. The term, 
however, is possibly one of the many street words from the 
Hebrew (through the low Jews) ; shephel, in that language, 



1 



Hosted by G00gk 



214 



A DICTIONARY OF 



r 



signifying a low or debased estate. CJialdee, shaphal.— See 
Psalm cxxxvi. 23, " in our loio estate." A correspondent 
suggests another very probable derivation, from the German, 
schofel, trash, rubbish, — the German adjective, schofelig, 
being the nearest possible translation of our shabby. ■ 

SHOWFULL-PITCHER, a passer of counterfeit money. 

SHOWFULL PITCHING, passing bad money. 

SHOWFULLPULLET, a "gay" woman. 

SHRIMP, a diminutive person. — Chaucer. 

SHUNT, to throw or turn aside. — Railway term. 

SHUT OF, or shot of, rid of. 

SHUT UP! be quiet, don't make a noise; to stop short, to 
make cease in a summary manner, to silence effectually. 
"Only the other day we heard of a preacher who, speaking 
of the scene with the doctors in the Temple, remarked that 
the Divine disputant completely shut them up!" — Athen. 
30th July, 1859. Shut up, utterly exhausted, done for. 

SHY, a throw. 

SHY, " to fight shy of a person," to avoid his society either 
from dislike, fear, or any other reason. Shy has also the 
sense of flighty, unsteady, untrustworthy. 

SHY, to fling ; oock-shy, a game at fairs, consisting of throwing 
short sticks at trinkets set upon other sticks, — both name 
and practice derived from the old game of throwing or 
shying at live cocks. 

SICES, or sizes, a throw of sixes at dice. 

SICK AS A HORSE, popular simile, — curious, because a horse 
never vomits. 

SICKNER, or sickener, a dose too much of anything. 

SIDE BOARDS, or stick-ups, shirt collars. 

SIGHT, "to take a sight at a person," a vulgar action em- 
ployed by street boys to denote incredulity, or contempt for 
authority, by placing the thumb against the nose and closing 
all the fingers except the little one, which is agitated in 
token of derision. — See walker. 

SIM, one of a Methodistical turn in religion ; alow-church-man ; 
originally a follower of the late Rev. Charles Simeon. — 
Cambridge. 

SIMON, a sixpenny piece. 

SIMON PURE, "the real simon pure," the genuine article. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 215 

Those who have witnessed Mr. C. Mathews' performance, in 
Mrs. Centlivre's admirable comedy of A Bold Stroke for a 
Wife, and the laughable coolness with which he, the false 
simon pure, assuming the quaker dress aDd character of 
the real one, elbowed that worthy out of liis expected 
entertainment, will at once perceive the origin of this phrase. 
— See act v., sceue 1. 

SING OUT, to call aloud.— Sea. 

SING SMALL, to lessen one's boasting, and turn arrogance into 
humility. 

SINKERS, bad money. 

SINKS, a throw of fives at dice. French, cinqs. 

SIR HARRY, a close stool. 

SISERARA, a hard blow. — Suffolk. Moor derives it from the 
story of Sisera in the Old Testament, but it is more pro- 
bably a corruption of certiorari, a Chancery writ reciting 
a complaint of hard usage. 

SIT UNDER, a term employed in Dissenters' meeting houses, to 
denote attendance on the ministry of any particular 
preacher. 

SITTING PAD, sitting on the pavement in a begging position. 

SIT-UPONS, trousers. — See inexpressibles. 

SIVVY, "'pon my srvvr," i.e., upon my soul or honour. Cor- 
ruption of asseveration, like davt, which is an abridgment 
of affidavit. 

SIXES AND SEVENS, articles in confusion are said to be all 
sixes and sevens. The Deity is mentioned in the Towne- 
ley Mysteries as He that " sett all on seven,'' i.e., set or 
appointed everything in seven days. A similar phrase at 
this early elate implied confusion and disorder, and from 
these, Halliwell thinks, has been derived the phrase " to be 
at sixes and sevens." A Scotch correspondent, however, 
states that the phrase probably came from the workshop, 
and that amongst needle makers when the points and eyes 
are "heads and tails" ("heeds and thraws"), or in con- 
fusion, they are said to be sixes and sevens, because those 
numbers are the sizes most generally used, and in the course 
of manufacture have frequently to be distinguished. 

SIXTY, "to go along like sixty," i.e., at a good rate, briskly. 

SIZE, to order extras over and above the usual commons at the 
dinner in college halls. Soup, pastry, &c, are sizings, and are 



Hosted by G00gk 



I 



21( 



A DICTIONARY OF 



paid for at a certain specified rate per size, or portion, ti 
the college cook.— Peculiar to Cambridge. Minsheu says 
" size, a farthing which schollers in Cambridge have at th< 
buttery, noted with the letter 5." 

SIZERS, or sizars, are certain poor scholars at Cambridge, annu 
ally elected, who get their dinners (including sizings) from 
what is left at the upper, or Fellows' table, free, or nearly 
so. They pay rent of rooms, and some other fees, on a 
lower scale than the " Pensioners" or ordinary students, 
and answer to the " battlers" and " servitors" at Oxford. 

SIZINGS, see size. 

SKATES LURK, a begging impostor dressed as a sailor. 

SKID, a sovereign. Fashionable slang. 

SKIE, to throw upwards, to toss "coppers." — See odd man. 

SKILLY, broth served on board the hulks to convicts. — Line. 

SKILLIGOLEE, prison gruel, also sailors' soup of many ii 
gredients. 

SKIN", a purse. 

SKIN, to abate, or lower the value of anything ; " thin skinned 
sensitive, touchy. 

SKIN-FLINT, an old popular simile for a "close-fisted," stingy 
person. 

SKIPPER, the master of a vessel. Butch, schiffer, from sch/ff 
a ship ; sometimes used synonymous with " Governor." 

SKIPPER, a barn. — Ancient cant. 

SKIPPER IT, to sleep in the open air, or in a rough way. 

SKIPPER-BIRDS, or keyhole whistlers, persons who sleep 
in barns or outhouses in preference to lodging-houses. 

SKIT, a joke, a squib. 

SKITTLES, a game similar to Ten Pins, which, when inter- 
dicted by the Government was altered to Nine Pins, or 
skittles. They are set up in an alley and are thrown at 
(not bowled) with a round piece of hard wood, shaped like 
a small flat cheese. The costers consider themselves the 
best players in London. 

SKROUGE, to push or squeeze.— North. 

SKULL-THATCHERS, straw bonnet makers,— sometimes 
called " bonnet-BUiLDERS." 

SKY, a disagreeable person, an enemy. — Westminster School. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 217 

3KY-BLUE, London milk much diluted with water, or from 
which the cream has been too closely skimmed. 
"Hence, Suffolk dairy wives run mad for cream, 
And leave their milk with nothing but the name ; 
Its name der'sion and reproach, pursue, 
And strangers tell of three times skimmed — sky-blue." 

Bloomfuld's Farmer's Boy. 
Sky-blue formerly meant gin. 

SKY-LARK.— See lark. 

SKY PARLOUR, the garret. 

SKY SCRAPER, a tall man; "are you cold up there, old sky 
scraper ?" Properly a sea term ; the light sails which 
some adventurous skippers set above the royals in calm 
latitudes are termed sky-scrapers and moon-rakers. 

SKY WANNOCKING, unsteady, frolicking.— Norfolk. 

SLAMMOCK, a slattern or awkward person. — West; and Norf. 

SLANG, low, vulgar, unwritten, or unauthorised language. 
Gipsey, slang, the secret language of the Gipseys, synony- 
mous with gibberish, another Gipsey word. This word is 
only to be found in the Dictionaries of Webster and Ogilvie. 
It was, perhaps, first recorded by Grose, in his Dictionary 
of the Vulgar Tongue, 1785. Slang, since it has been 
adopted as an English word, generally implies vulgar lan- 
guage not known or recognised as cant ; and latterly, 
when applied to speech, has superseded the word flash. 

SLANG, counterfeit or short weights and measures. A slang 
quart is a pint and a half. Slang measures are lent out at 
2d. per day. The term is used principally by coster - 
mongers. 

SLANG, to cheat, to abuse in foul language. 

SLANG, a travelling show. 

SLANG, a watch chain. 

SLANGY, flashy, vulgar; loud in dress, manner, and con- 
versation. 

SLANTINGDICULAR, oblique, awry, — as opposed to per- 
pendicular. 

SLAP, paint for the face, rouge. 

SLAP, exactly, precisely; u slap in the wind's eye," i.e., exactly 
to windward. 

SLAP-UP, first-rate, excellent, very good. 

SLAP-BANG, suddenly, violently. 

SLAP-BANG SHOPS, low eating houses, where you have to pay 
down the ready money with a slap- bang. — Grose. 



Hosted by G00gk 



218 



A DICTIONARY OF 



SLAP-DASH, immediately, or quickly. 
SLASH, a pocket in an overcoat. 
SLASHER, a powerful roisterer, a pugilist; "the tipton 
slasher." 

SLATE, to pelt with abuse, to beat, to "lick;" or, in the 
language of the reviewers, to "cut up." 

SLATE, "he has a slate loose," i.e., he is slightly crazy. 

SLAVEY, a maid servant. 

SLEWED, drunk, or intoxicated.— Sea term. When a vessel 
chaDges the tack she, as it were, staggers, the sails flap, she 
gradually heels over, and the wind catching the waiting 
canvas, she glides off at another angle. The course pursued 
by an intoxicated, or slewed man, is supposed to be anala- 
gous to that of the ship. 

SLICK, an Americanism, very prevalent in England since the 
publication of Judge Haliburton's facetious stories. As an 
adjective, slick means rapidly, effectually, utterly; as a 
verb, it has the force of " to despatch rapidly," turn off, get 
done with a thing. 

SLICK A DEE, a pocket book. 

SLING, to pass from one person to another. 

SLIP, " to give the slip," to run away, or elude pursuit. Sliahes- 
pere has "you gave me the counterfeit," in Romeo and 
Juliet. Giving the slip, however, is a Sea phrase, and re- 
fers to fastening an anchor and chain cable to a floating 
buoy, or water cask, until such a time arrives that is con- 
venient to return and take them on board. In fastening the 
cable, the home end is slipped through the hawse pipe. 
Weighing anchor is a noisy task, so that giving it the slip 
infers to leave it in quietness. 

SLIP, or let slip ; " to slip into a man," to give him a sound 
beating ; " to let slip at a cove," to rush violently upon 
him, and assault with vigour. 

SLOG, or slogger (its original form), to beat, baste, or wallop. 
German, scHLAGEisr; or, perhaps a vulgar corruption of 
slaughter. The pretended Greelc derivation from aXoyco, 
which Punch puts in the mouth of the schoolboy, in his 
impression of 4th May, 1859, is of course only intended to 
mystify grandmamma, there being no such word in the 
language. 

SLOGGERS, i.e., slow-goers, the second division of race-boats 
at Cambridge. At Oxford they are called torpids. — Univ. 

SLOGGING, a good beating. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 219 

LOP, cheap, or ready made, as applied to clothing, is generally 
supposed to be a modero appropriation ; but it was used in 
this sense in 169], by Maydman, in his Naval Speculations ; 
and by Chaucer two centuries before that. Slops properly 
signify sailors' working clothes. 

>LOP. a policeman. Probably at first back slang, but now 

general. 
SLOPE, to decamp, to run, or rather slip away. Originally from 

lope, to make off; the 5 probably became affixed as a portion 

of the preceding word, as in the case of "let's lope," let us 

run. — Americanism. 
SLOPS, chests or packages of tea; "he shook a slum of slops," 

i.e., stole a chest of tea. 
LOUR, to lock, or fasten. 
SLOUR'D, buttoned up; slour'd hoxter, an inside pocket 

buttoned up. 

SLOWED, to be locked up — in prison. 

LUICERY, a gin shop or public house. 

LUM, a letter. 

LUM, a chest, or package. — See slops. 

SLUM, gammon ; " up to slum," wide awake, knowing, 
"And this, without more slum, began, 
Over a flowing Pol -house can, 
To settle, without botheration, 
The rigs of this here tip-top nation." 

Jack Randall's Diary, 1820. 

SLUM THE GORGER, to cheat on the sly, to be an eye servant. 

Slum in this sense is old cant. 
SLUMMING, passing bad money. 
SLUMS, or back slums, dark retreats, low neighbourhoods ; 

u the Westminster slums," favourite haunts for thieves. 
SLUSHY, a ship's cook. 

3MACK SMOOTH, even, level with the surface, quickly. 
SMALL BEER, " he does't think small beer of himself," i.e., 

he has a great opinion of his own importance. Small coals 

is also used in the same sense. 
SMASH, to become bankrupt, or worthless ; u to go all to 

smash;" to break, or "go to the dogs." 
SMASH, to pass counterfeit money. 
SMASHER, one who passes bad coin. 
SMASHFEEDER, a Britannia metal spoon, — the best imitation 

shillings are made from this metal. 



Hosted by G00gk 



220 A DICTIONARY OF 

SMELLER, a blow on the nose, or a noser. 
SMIGGINS, soup served to convicts on board the hulks. 
SMISH, a shirt, or chemise. Corruption of the Span.— See mish 
SMITHERS, or smithereens, "all to smithereens," all t 

smash. Smither, is a Lincolnshire word for a fragment. 
SMOKE, to detect, or penetrate an artifice. 
SMUDGE, to smear, obliterate, daub. Corruption of smutch.- 

Times, 10th August, 1859. 
SMUG, extremely neat, after the fashion, in order. 
SMUG, to snatch another's property and run. 
SMUGGINGS, snatchiDgs, or purloinings, — shouted out by boys 

when snatching the tops, or small play property, of othe 

lads, and then running off at full speed. 

" Tops are in ; spin 'em asrin. 
Tops are out; smugging about.' 

SMUT, a copper boiler. Also, the " blacks " from a furnace. 
SMUTTY, obscene, — vulgar as applied to conversation. 
SNACK, booty, or share. Also, a light repast — Old cant am 

Gipsey term. 
SNAFFLED, arrested, " pulled up," — so termed from a kind o 

horse's bit, called a snaefle. In East Anglia, to snaffl 

is to talk foolishly. 
SNAGGLE TEETH, uneven, and unpleasant looking denta 

operators. — West. Snags {Americanism), ends of sunkei 

drift-wood sticking oat of the water, on which river steamer; 

are often wrecked. 
SNAGGLING, angling after geese with a hook and line, the bai 

being a worm or snail. The goose swallows the bait, and is 

quietly landed and bagged. 
SNAGGY, cross, crotchetty, malicious. 
SNAM, to snatch, or rob from the person. 
SNAPPS, share, portion ; any articles or circumstances out c 

which money may be made; "looking out for snapps, 

waiting for windfalls, or odd jobs.— Old. Scotch, chits, - 

term also used for " coppers," or halfpence. 
SNEAKSMAN, a shoplifter ; a petty, cowardly thief. 
SNEEZER, a snuffbox ; a pocket-handkerchief. 
SNEEZE LURKER, a thief who throws enuff in a person's fac 

and then robs bim. 
SNID, a sixpence. — Scotch. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 221 

(NIGGER, "I'm sniggered if you will," a mild form of swear- 
ing. Another form of this is jiggered. 

NIGGERING, laughing to oneself.— East. 

NIP, a tailor. 

NIPE, along bill; also a term for attorneys,— a race remark- 
able for their propensity to long bills. 

NIPES, " a pair of snipes," a pair of scissors. They are occa- 
sionally made in the form of that bird. 

NITCHERS, persons who turn queen's evidence, or who tell 
tales. In Scotland, snitchers signify handcuffs. 

NOB, a low, vulgar, or affected person. Supposed to be from 
the nickname usually applied to a Crispin, or a maker of 
shoes ; but believed by a writer in Notes and Queries to be 
a contraction of the Latin, sine obolo. A more probable 
derivation, however, has just been forwarded by an ingenious 
correspondent. He supposes that nobs, i.e., Nobiles, was 
appended in lists to the names of persons of gentle birth, 
whilst those who had not that distinction were marked 
down as s. nob., i.e., sine nobilitate, without marks of gen- 
tility, — thus reversing its meaning. Another "word-twister" 
remarks that, as at college sons of nobleman wrote after 
their names in the admission lists, fit nob., son of a lord, and 
hence all young noblemen were called nobs, and what they 
did nobby, so those who imitated them would be called 
quasi-nobs, " like a nob," which by a process of contraction 
would be shortened to si-nob, and then snob, one who pre- 
tends to be what he is not, and apes his betters. The suort 
and expressive terms which many think fitly represent the 
three great estates of the realm, nob, snob, and mob, 
were all originally slang words. The last has safely passed 
through the vulgar ordeal of the streets, and found respect- 
able quarters in the standard dictionaries. 
SNOBBISH, stuck up, proud, make believe. 
SNOB-STICK, a workman who refuses to join in strikes, or 

trade uuion^. Query, properly knob-stick. 
SNOOKS, an imaginary personage often brought forward as the 
answer to an idle question, or as the perpetrator of a sense- 
less joke. 
SNOOZE, or snoodge (vulgar pronunciation), to sleep or doze. 
SNOT, a term of reproach applied to persons by the vulgar 
when vexed or annoyed. In a Westminster school voca- 
bulary for boys, published in the last century, the term is 



Hosted by G00gk 



222 A DICTIONARY OF 

curiously applied. Its proper meaning is the glanduh 
mucus discharged through the nose. 
SNOTTER, or wipe-hauler, a pickpocket who commits gref 
depredations upon gentlemen's pocket-handkerchiefs,- 
North. 

SNOTTINGER, a coarse word for a pocket-handkerchief. Th 
German schnupftucJi is, however, nearly as plain. A l 'han< 
kerchief was also anciently called a muckinger, c 

MUCK.ENDER. 

SNOTS, small bream, a slimy kind of flat fish.— Norwich. 
SNOW, wet linen. 

SNOW GATHERERS, or snow-droppers, rogues who ste; 
linen from hedges and drying grounds. 

SNUFF, "up to snuff," knowing and sharp ; "to take snuff, 
to be offended. ShaJcespere uses snuff in the sense c 
anger, or passion. Snuffy, tipsy. 

SNYDER, a tailor. German, Schneider. 

SOAP, flattery. — See soft soap. 

SOFT, foolish, inexperienced. An old term for bank notes. 

SOFT-SOAP, or soft-sawder, flattery, ironical praise. 

SOFT TACK, bread.— Sea. 

SOLD, "sold again ! and the money taken," gulled, deceived. - 

Vide sell. 
SOLD UP, or out, broken down, bankrupt. 
SOLDIER, a red herring. 
SON OF A GUN, a contemptuous title for a man. In the arnr 

it is sometimes applied to an artilleryman. 
SOOT BAG, a reticule. 

SOP, a soft or foolish man. Abbreviation of milksop. 
SOPH (abbreviation of sophister), a title peculiar to the Uni 

versity of Cambridge. Undergraduates are junior sopej 

before passing their " Little Go" or first University exarni 

nation, — senior sophs after that. 

SOUND, to pump, or draw information from a person in an art 
ful manner. 

SOW, the receptacle into which the liquid iron is poured in i 
gun-foundry. The melted metal poured from it is termec 
pig. — Workmen's terms. 

SOW'S BABY, a pig; sixpence. 

SPANK, a smack, or hard slap. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 223 

3 ANK, to move along quickly ; hence a fast horse or vessel is 
said to be " a spanker to go." 

NANKING, large, fine, or strong ; e.g., a spanking pace, a 
spanking breeze, a spanking fellow. 

PECKS, damaged oranges. 

PEEL, to run away, make off; " speel the drum," to gooff 
with stolen property. — North. 

PELL, " to spell for a thing," hanker after it, intimate a desire 
to possess it, 

PELLKEN, or speelken, a playhouse. German, spielen. 
— See ken. — Don Juan. 

PICK AND SPAN, applied to anything that is quite new and 
fresh. — Hudibras. 

PIFFED, slightly intoxicated. — Scotch slang. 

PIFFS, the percentage allowed by drapers to their young men 
when they effect a sale of old-fashioned or undesirable 
stock. 

PIFFY, spruce, well-dressed, tout a la mode. 

PIFLICATE, to confound, silence, or thrash. 

PILT, thrown from a horse or chaise. — See purl. 

PIN, to reject from an examination. — Army. 

PIN-EM POUNDS, a street game consisting of a piece of brass, 
wood, or iron, balanced on a pin, and turned quickly around 
on a board, when the point, arrow shaped, stops at a number 
and decides the bet one way or the other. The contrivance 
very much resembles a sea compass, and was formerly the 
gambling accompaniment of London piemen. The appara- 
tus then was erected on the tin lids of then- pie cans, and 
the bets were ostensibly for pies, but more frequently for 
" coppers," when no policeman frowned upon the scene, 
and when two or three apprentices or porters happened to 
meet. 

PINIKEN, a workhouse. 

PIRT, or spurt, " to put on a spirt," to make an increased 
exertion for a brief space, to attain one's end ; a nervous 
effort. 

PITFIRE, a passionate person. 

PLENDIFEROUS, sumptuous, first-rate. 

PLICE, to marry ; "and the two shall become one flesh." — 
Sea. 

JPLICE THE MAIN BRACE, to take a drink.— Sea. 



Hosted by GOQgle 



224 A DICTIONARY OF 

SPLIT, to inform against one's companions, to tell tales. "T 
split with a person," to cease acquaintanceship, to quarre 

SPLODGER, a lout, an awkward countryman. 

SPOFFY, a bustling busy-body is said to be spoffy. 

SPONGE, "to throw up the sponge," to submit, give over th 
struggle,— from the practice of throwing up the spong 
used to cleanse the combatants' faces, at a prize fight, as 
signal that the " mill " is concluded. 

SPOON, synonymous with spooney. A spoon has been defiuei 
to be "a thing that touches a lady's lips without kissin 
them." 

SPOONEY, a weak-minded and foolish person, effeminate o 
fond ; " to be spooney on a girl," to be foolishly attache* 
to one. 

SPOONS, "when I was spoons with you," i.e., when young, an 
in our courting days before marriage.— Charles Mathews, i: 
the farce of Everybody' s Friend, 

SPORT, to exhibit, to wear, &c.,— a word which is made to do 
duty in a variety of senses, especially at the University 
See the Gradns ad Cantahrigiam* "To sport a new tile-' 
" to sport an JEgrotat" (i.e., a permission from the " Dons' 
to abstain from lectures, &c., on account of illness); "to sport 
one's oak," to shut the outer door and exclude the public, 
-—especially duns, and boring acquaintances. Common also 
in the Inns of Court.— See Notes and Queries, 2nd series, 
vol. viii., p. 492, and Gentleman's Magazine, December, 1794 

SPORTING DOOR, the outer door of chambers, also called the 

oak. — See under sport. — University. 
SPOTTED, to be known or marked by the police. 

SPOUT, "up the spout," at the pawnbroker's; spouting, 
pawning. — See pop for origin. 

SPOUT, to preach, or make speeches ; spouter, a preacher or 
lecturer. 

SPRAT, sixpence. 

SPREAD, butter. 

SPREAD, a lady's shawl. Spread, at the East end of London, 
a feast, or a tightener; at the West end a fashionable re- 
union, an entertainment, display of good things. 

SPREE, a boisterous piece of merriment; "going on the spree," 
starting out with intent to have a frolic. French, esprit 
In the Dutch language, spreeuw is a jester. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 2 2o 

RINGER-UP, a tailor who sells low-priced ready made 
clothing, and gives starvation wages to the poor men and 
women who "make up" for him. The clothes are said to 
be sprung-up, or "blown together." 

RY, active, strong, manly. — Americanism. 

UDDY, a seller of bad potatoes. In Scotland, a spud is a raw 
potato ; and roasted spuds are those cooked in the cinders 
with their jackets on. 

UNGING-HOUSE, the sheriff's officer's house, where pri- 
soners, when arrested for debt, are sometimes taken. As 
extortionate charges are made there for accommodation, 
the name is far from inappropriate. 

UNK, spirit, fire, courage, mettle. 

" Tn that snug room, where any man of spunk 
Would find it a hard matter to get drunk." 

Peter Pindar, i., 245. 

Common in America. For derivation see the following. 

UNKS, lucifer matches.— Herefordshire; Scotland. Spunk, 
says Urry, in his MS. notes to Ray, "is the excrescency of 
some tree, of which they make a sort of tinder to light 
their pipes with." 

PUNK-FENCER, a lucifer match seller. 

3UABBY, flat, short and thick. 

QUARE, honest; "on the square," i.e., fair and strictly 
honest ; " to turn square," to reform, and get one's living 
in an honest manner, — the opposite of cross. 

QUARE, " to be square with a man," to be even with him, or 
to be revenged ; " to square up to a man," to offer to fight 
him. Shalcespere uses square in the sense of to quarrel. 

QUARE COVE, an honest man. 

^UARE MOLL, an honest woman. 

QUARE RIGGED, well dressed.— -Sea. 

^UARING HIS NIBS, giving a policeman money. 

3UEEZE, silk. 

^UIB, a temporary jeu d" esprit, which, like the firework of 
that denomination, sparkles, bounces, stinks, and vanishes. — 
Grose. 

QUINNY-EYED, squinting.— SJialcespere. 

QUIRT, a doctor, or chemist. 

TAFF NAKED, gin. 

PAG, a shilling. 

Q 



Hosted by G00gk 



226 



A DICTIONARY OF 



STAG, a term applied during the railway mania to a specula 
without capital, who took "scrip" in " Diddlesex Junctio 
and other lines, ejus et sui generis, got the shares up toaj 
mium, and then sold out. Punch represented the house 
Hudson, " the Railway King," at Albert Gate, with a s r . 
on it, in allusion to this term. 

STAG, to demand money, to " cadge." 

STAG, to see, discover, or watch,— like a stag at gaze ; < ^ 
the push," look at the crowd. Also, to dun, or clems 
payment. 

STAGGER, one who looks out, or watches. 

STAGGERING BOB, an animal to whom the knife only j 
anticipates death from natural disease or accident,— said 
meat on that account unfit for human food. 

STALE, to evacuate urine. — Stable term, 

STALL, to lodge, or put up at a public house. Also, to ac 
part. — Theatrical. 

STALL, or stall off, a dodge, a blind, or an excuse. Stall 
ancient cant. 

STALL OFF, to blind, excuse, hide, to screen a robbery duri 
the perpetration of it by an accomplice. 

STALL YOUR MUG, go away ; spoken sharply by any one w 
wishes to get rid of a troublesome or inconvenient persoi 

STALLSMAN, an accomplice. 

STAMPERS, shoes.— Ancient cant.. * 

STAND, " to stand treat," to pay for a friend's entertainmen 
to bear expense; to put up with treatment, good or i] 
"this house stood me in £1,000," i.e., cost that sum ; " 
stand pad," to beg on the curb with a small piece of pap 
pinned on the breast, inscribed " I'm starving.'" 

STANDING, the position at a street corner, or on the curb oJ 
market street, regularly occupied by a costermonger, 
street seller. 

STANDING PATTERERS, men who take a stand on the cu 
of a public thoroughfare, and deliver prepared speeches 
effect a sale of any articles they have to vend. — See pa 

TERER. 

STAN GEY, a tailor; a person under petticoat government,- 
derived from the custom of " riding the stang/' mention* 
in Hudibras : — 

" It is a custom used of course 
Where the grey mare is the better horse." 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 227 

PARK-NAKED (originally strip-me naked, vide Randall's 
Diary, 1820), raw gin. — Bulwers Paul Clifford. 

TARCHY, stuck-up, high-notioned, showily dressed, disdain- 
ful, cross. 

TAR IT, to perform as the centre of attraction, with inferior 
subordinates to set off one's abilities. — Theatrical. 

TAR THE GLAZE, to break the window or show glass of a 
jeweller or other tradesman, and take any valuable articles, 
and run away. Sometimes the glass is cut with a diamond, 
and a strip of leather fastened to the piece of glass cut out 
to keep it from falling in and making a noise. Another plan 
is to cut the sash. 

TART, " the start," London, — the great starting point for 
beggars and tramps. 

TART, a proceeding of any kind ; a rum start," an odd cir- 
cumstance ; " to get the start of a person," to anticipate, 
him, overreach him. 

TASH, to cease doing anything, to refrain, be quiet, leave off; 
" stash it, there, you sir !" i.e., be quiet, sir ; to give over a 
lewd or intemperate course of life is termed stashing it. 

TEEL, the house of correction in London, formerly named the 
Bastile, but since shortened to steel. 

TEEL BAR DRIVERS, or flingers, journeymen tailors. 

STEMS, the legs. 

TEP IT, to run away, or make off. 

STICK, a derogatory expression for a person ; u a rum " or " odd 
stick," a curious man. More generally a " poor stick." — 
Provincial. 

STICK, "cut your stick," be off, or go away; either simply 
equivalent to a recommendation to prepare a walking staff 
in readiness for a journey — in allusion to the Eastern 
custom of cutting a stick before setting out— or from the 
ancient mode of reckoning by notches or tallies on a stick. 
In Cornwall the peasantry tally sheaves of corn by cuts in 
a stick, reckoning by the score. Cut tour stick in this 
sense may mean to make your mark and pass on — and so 
realise the meaniug of the phrase "in the nick (or notch) 
of time.'' Sir J. Emerson Tennent, in Notes and Queries 
(December, 1859), considers the phrase equivalent to 
"cutting the connection," and suggests a possible origin 
in the prophets breaking the staves of "Beauty" and 
" Bands," — vide Zech., xi., 10, 14. 
STICK, to cheat ; "he got stuck," he was taken in ; stick, to 

Q 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



228 A DICTIONARY OF 

forget one's part in a performance — Theatrical; stick o. 
to overcharge or defraud ; stick up for, to defend 
person, especially when slandered in his absence ; stick i 
to, to persevere in courting or attacking, whether in fist} 
cuffs or argument ; " to stick in one's gizzard," to rank: 
in one's heart ; " to stick to a person," to adhere to one, 1 
his friend through adverse circumstances. 

STICKS, furniture, or household chattels ; " pick up your stice 
and cut P summary advice to a person to take himself an 
furniture away. — Cumberland. 

STICKS, pistols.— Nearly obsolete. 

STICK-UPS, or gills, shirt collars. 

STICKINGS, bruised or damaged meat sold to sausage maker 
and penny pie shops. — North. 

STICKY, wax. 

STIFF, paper, a bill of acceptance, &c. ; " how did you get i 
stiff or hard ?" i.e., did he pay you cash or give a bill ? 

STIFF FENCER, a street seller of writing paper. 

STIFF 'UN, a corpse. — Term used by undertakers. 

STILTON, " that's the stilton," or " it is not the stilton ; 
i.e., that is quite the thing, or that is not quite the thing 
— polite rendering of " that is not the cheese," which see. 

STINGO, strong liquor. — Yorkshire. 

STINK, a disagreeable exposure. 

STINKOMALEE, a name given to the then New London Uni 
versity by Theodore Hook. Some question about Trinco 
malee was agitated at the same time. It is still applied fr 
the students of the old Universities, who regard it with dis 
favour from its admitting all denominations. 

STIPE, a stipendiary magistrate. — Provincial. 

STIR, a prison, a lock-up ; " in stir," in jail. Anglo Saxon, sttr 
correction, punishment. 

STIR UP SUNDAY, the Sunday next before Advent, th 
collect for that day commencing with the words " Stir up. 1 
Schoolboys, growing excited at the prospect of the vacation 
irreverently commemorate it by stirring up — pushing anc 
poking each other. Crib crust Monday and tug button 
Tuesday are distinguished by similar tricks ; while 01 
pay-off wednesd kY they retaliate small grudges in a playfu 
facetious way. Forby says, good housewives in Norfoll 
consider themselves reminded by the name to mix the 
ingredients for their Christmas mince pies. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 229 

TOCKDOLAGER, a heavy blow, a " finisher." Italian, 
stoccado, a fencing term. 

iTODGE, to surfeit, gorge, or clog with food. 

TONE JUG, a prison. 

•TOOK, a pocket-handkerchief. 

TOOK HAULER, or buzzer, a thief who takes pocket-hand- 
kerchiefs. 

TOP, a detective policeman. 

>TORY, a falsehood,— the soft synonyme for a lie, allowed in 
family circles and boarding-schools. A Puritanism that 
came in fashion with the tirade against romances, all novels 
and stories being considered as dangerous and false. 

iTOTOR, a heavy blow, a settler. — Old cant. 

3TOW, to leave off, or have done ; " stow it, the gorger's leary," 
leave off, the person is looking. See stash, with which it is 
synonymous. — Ancient cant. 

STOW FAKING ! leave off there, be quiet ! faking implying 
anything that may be going on. 

STRAW. Married ladies are said to be " in the straw " at 
their accouchements. The phrase is a coarse allusion to 
farm-yard animals in a similar condition. 

STRAWING, selling straws in the streets (generally for a 
penny) and giving the purchaser a paper (indecent or 
political), or a gold (!) ring,— neither of which the patterer 
states he is allowed to sell. 

STREAK, to decamp, run away.— Saxon. In America the 
phrase is " to make streaks," or " make tracks." 

STREAKY, irritated, ill-tempered. 

STREET PITCHERS, negro minstrels, ballad singers, long song 
men, men " working a board " on which have been painted 
various exciting scenes in some terrible drama, the details of 
which the street pitcher is bawling out, and selling in a 
little book or broadsheet (price one penny) ; or any persons 
who make a stand in the streets, and sell articles for their 
living. 

STRETCH, abbreviation of il stretch one's neck," to hang, be 
executed as a malefactor. — Bulwers Paul Clifford. 

STRETCH, twelve months, — generally used to intimate the 
time any one has been sentenced by the judge or magistrate. 
One stretch is to be imprisoned twelve months, two 
stretch is two years, three stretch is three years, and so on. 

STRETCHER, a falsehood. 



Hosted by G00gk 



230 A DICTIONARY OF 

STRETCHER, a contrivance with handles, used by the police t 
carry off persons who are violent or drunk. 

STRETCHER FENCER, one who sells braces. 

STRETCHING MATCH, an execution.— See stretch. 

STRIKE ME LUCKY ! an expression used by the lower order 
when making a bargain, derived from the old custom oi 
striking hands together, leaving in that of the seller a luck 
penny as an earnest that the bargain is concluded. In 
Ireland, at cattle markets, &c, a penny, or other small coin, 
is always given by the buyer to the seller to ratify the 
bargain. — Hudibras. Anciently this was called a god's 
penny. 

" With that he cast him a God's peny."— Heir of Linne. 
The origin of the phrase being lost sight of, like that of 
many others, it is often corrupted now-a-days into strike 
me SILLY. 

STRIKE THE JIGGER, to pick the lock, or break open the door. 

STROMMEL, straw.— Ancient cant. Halliwell says that in 
Norfolk strummel is a name for hair. 

STRONG, " to come it strong." — See come. 

STUCK-UP, "purse-proud" — a form of snobbishness very 
common in those who have risen in the world. Mr. Albert 
Smith has written some amusing papers on the Natural 
History of stuck-up People. 

STUFF, money. 

STUFF, to make false but plausible statements, to praise ironi- 
cally, to make game of a person, — literally, to stuef or cram 
him with gammon or falsehood. 

STUMP, to go on foot. 

STUMPED, bowled out, done for, bankrupt, poverty stricken. — 
Cricketing term. 

STUMPS, legs, or feet. 

STUMPY, money. 

STUMP UP, to pay one's share, to pay the reckoning, to bring 
forth the money reluctantly. 

STUN, to astonish. 

STUNNER, a first-rate person or article. 

STUNNERS, feelings of great astonishment ; " it put the stun- 
ners on me," it confounded me. 

STUNNING, first-rate, very good. " Stunning pears," shouts 
the coster, " only eight a penny." — Vide Athencewn, 26th 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 



231 



March, 1859. Sometimes amplified to stunning joe 
banks 1 when the expression is supposed to be in its most 
intense form. Joe Banks was a noted character in the last 
generation. He was the proprietor of a public-house in 
Dyott-street, Seven Dials, and afterwards, on the demolition 
of the Rookery, of another in Cranbourne-alley. His 
houses became well-known from their being the resort of 
the worst characters, at the same time that the strictest 
decorum was always maintained in them. Joe Banks also 
acquired a remarkable notoriety by acting as a medium 
betwixt thieves and their victims. Upon the proper 
payment to Joe, a watch or a snuff box would at any time 
be restored to its lawful owner — " no questions in any case 
being asked." The most daring depredators in Loudon 
placed the fullest confidence in Joe, and it is believed 
(although the Biographie Universelle is quiet upon this 
point) that he never, iu any instance, " sold" them. He 
was of the middle height, stout, and strongly made, and 
was always noted for a showy pin, and a remarkably 
stunning neck-tie. It was this peculiarity in the costume 
of Mr. Banks, coupled with those true and tried qualities 
as a friend, for which, as I have just remarked, he was 
famous, that led his customers to proclaim him as stunning 
joe banks ! The Marquis of Douro, Colonel Cuatterley, and 
men of their stamp, were accustomed to resort to a private 
room at his house, when too late or too early to gain 
admittance to the clubs or more aristocratic establishments. 

>TUNNED ON SKILLY, to be sent to prison and compelled 
to eat skilly, or skilligolee. 

5TURABAN, a prison. Gipsey, distarabin. 

5UCK, a parasite, flatterer of the " nobs/'— University. 

SUCK, to pump, or draw information from a person. 

3UCK-CASSA, a public-house. 

SUCK THE MONKEY, to rob a cask of liquor by inserting a 
straw through a gimlet hole, and sucking a portion of the 
contents. 

SUCK UP, " to suck up to a person," to insinuate oneself into 
his good graces. 

SUFFERER, a tailor. 

SUIT, a watch and seals. 

SULKY, a one-horse chaise, having only room for one person. 

SUN IN THE EYES, to have too much drink. — Dickens, 

SUP, abbreviation of supernumerary.— Theatrical. 



Hosted by G00gk 



1 



232 



A DICTIONARY OF 



SUPER, a watch ; super-screwing, stealing watches. 

SURF, an actor who frequently pursues another calling.— Thee 

SWADDLER, a Wesleyan Methodist ; a name original]y giv< 
to members of that body by the Irish mob ; said to ha^ 
originated with an ignorant Romanist, to whom the wore 
of the English Bible were a novelty, and who, hearing 01 
of John Wesley's preachers mention the swaddling cloth 
of the Holy Infant, in a sermon on Christmas-dav at Dubli 
shouted out in derision, " A swaddler ! a swaddler /" as 
the whole story were the preacher's invention.— Southey 
Life of Wesley, vol. ii., p. 109. 

SWADDY, or coolie, a soldier. The former was original! 
applied to a discharged soldier, and perhaps came froi 
shoddy, of which soldiers' coats are made. 
SWAG, a lot or plenty of anything, a portion or division c 
property. In Australia the term is used for the luggag 
carried by diggers : in India the word loot is used. Scotci 
sweg, or swack ; German, sweig, a flock. Old cant for 
shop. 

SWAG, booty, or plundered property; "collar the swag," seiz 
the booty. 

SWAG-SHOP, a warehouse where " Brummagem" and genera 
wares are sold,— fancy trinkets, plated goods, &c. Jews ar 
the general proprietors, and the goods are excessively lov 
priced, trashy, and showy. Swag-shops were formed 1 
plunder depots. — Old cant. 

SWAGSMAN, one who carries the booty after a burglary. 

SWANKEY, cheap beer.— West. 

SWAP, to exchange. Grose says it is Irish cant, but the tern 
is now included in most dictionaries as an allowed vul 
garism. 

SWEAT, to extract money from a person, to "bleed," t( 
squander riches. — Bulwer. 

SWEATER, common term for a "cutting" or "grinding" em- 
ployer. 

SWEEP, a low or shabby man. 

SWEET, loving or fond ; " how sweet he was upon the moll,' 
i.e., what marked attention he paid the girl. 

SWELL, a man of importance ; a person with a showy, jaunty 
exterior ; " a rank swell," a very " nashly" dressed person, 
a man who by excessive dress apes a higher position than 
he actually occupies. Anything is said to be swell or 



Hosted by G00gje 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 233 

swellish that looks showy, or is many coloured, or is of a 
desirable quality. Dickens and Thackeray are termed great 
swells in literature ; so indeed are the first persons in the 
learned professions. 

SWELL FENCER, a street salesman of needles. 

SWELL HUNG IN CHAINS, said of a showy man in the 
habit of wearing much jewellery. 

SWIG, to drink. Saxon, swigan. 

SWIG, a hearty drink. 

SWIM, " a good swim," a good run of luck, a long time out of 
the policeman's clutches. — Thieves' term. 

SWINDLER, although a recognised word in respectable dic- 
tionaries, commenced service as a slang term. It was used 
as such by the poor Londoners against the German Jews 
who set up in London about the year 1762, also by our 
soldiers in the German War about that time. Schwxndel, 
in German, signifies to cheat. 

SWING, to be hanged. 

SWINGING, large, huge. 

SWIPES, sour or small beer. Swipe, to drink— Sea. 

SWIPEY (from swipes), intoxicated. 

SWISHED, married. 

SWIZZLE, small beer, drink. 

SWOT, mathematics ; also a mathematician ; as a verb, to work 
hard for an examination, to be diligent in one's studies. — 
Army. 

This word originated at the great slang manufactory for 
the army, the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, in the 
broad Scotch pronunciation of Dr. Wallace, one of the 
Professors, of the word sweat. — See Notes and Queries, vol. i., 
p. 369. 

T, " to suit to a T," to fit to a nicety.— Old. Perhaps from the 
T-square of carpenters, by which the accuracy of work is 
tested. 

TACKLE, clothes.— Sea. 

TAFFY (corruption of David), a Welshman. Compare sawnet 
(from Alexander), a Scotchman. 

TAG-RAG-AND-B0BTA1L, a mixed crowd of low people, 
mobility. 

TAIL BUZZER, a thief who picks coat pockets. 

TAKE, to succeed, or be patronised ; " do you think the new 



Hosted by G00gk 



234 A DICTIONARY OF 

opera will take ?" « No, because the same company took 
so badly under the old management;" "to take on," to 
grieve; Shahespere uses the word taking in this sense.' To 
take up for any one," to protect or defend a person • " to 
take off,' to mimic; " to take heart," to have courage • 
to take down a peg or two," to humiliate, or tame ; " to 
take up," to reprove; "to take after/' to resemble; "to 
take in," to cheat or defraud, from the lodging-house 
Keepers' advertisements, " single men taken in and done 
for, —an engagement which is as frequently performed in 
a bad as a good sense ; "to take the field, when said of 
a General, to commence operations against the enemy 
when a racing man takes the field he stakes his money 
against the favourite. 
TAKE BEEF, to run away. 

TAKE IN, a cheating or swindling transaction,— sometimes 
termed "a dead take in." Shahespere has take in in the 
sense of conquering. To be had, or to be spoke to, were 
formerly synonymous phrases with to be taken in. 

TALLY, five dozen bunches of turnips. 

TAN", to beat or thrash; I'll tan your hide, i.e.. give you a good 
beating. ° 

TANNER, a sixpence. Gipsey, tawno, little, or Latin, tener 
slender ? 

TANNY, or teeny, little. Gipsey, tawno, little. 

TANTREMS, pranks, capers, or frolicking; from the Tarantula 

dance? See account of the involuntary phrensy and 

motions caused by the bite of the tarantula in Italy.— 

Penny Cyclopxedia. 
TAPE, gin, — term with female servants. 
TAPER, to gradually give over, to run short. 
TAP TUB, the Morning Advertiser. 
TAT BOX, a dice box. 
TATER, "s'elp my tater," another street evasion of a profane 

oath, sometimes varied by "s'elp my greens." 
TATLER, a watch ; "nimming a tatler," stealing a watch. 
TATS, dice. 

TATS, old rags ; milky tats, white rags. 
TATTING, gathering old rags. 
TAW, a large or principal marble; "I'll be one on your taw," 

I will pay you out, or be even with you, — a simile taken 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 235 

from boys aiming always at winning the taw when playing 
at marbles. 
TEAGUELAND, Ireland. 

TEETH, " he has cut his eye teeth," i.e., is old and cute enough. 
TEETH-DRAWING, wrenching off knockers. 
TEETOTALLER, a total abstainer from alcoholic drinks. 
TEETOTALLT, amplification of totally. 
TELL-ON, to tell about. 
TENPENCE TO THE SHILLING, a vulgar phrase denoting 

a deficiency in intellect. 
TESTER, sixpence. From testone, a shilling in the reign of 
Henry VIIL, but a sixpence in the time of Q. Elizabeth.— 
Shakespere. French, teste, or tete, the head of the 
monarch on the coin. 
TEVISS, a shilling. 
THEATRE, a police court. 
THICK, intimate, familiar. Scotch, chief; "the two are very 

chief now," i.e., friendly. 
THICK-UN, a sovereign ; a crown piece, or five shillings. 
THIMBLE, or yack, a watch. 

THIMBLE -RIG, a noted cheating game played at fairs and places 
of great public thronging, consisting of two or three thim- 
bles rapidly and dexterously placed over a pea, when the 
thimbls-bigger, suddenly ceasing, asks you under which 
thimble the pea is to be found. If you are not a practised 
hand you will lose nine times out of ten any bet you may 
happen to make with him. The pea is sometimes concealed 
under his nail. 
THIMBLE TWISTERS, thieves who rob persons of their 

watches. 
THINSKINNED, over nice, petulant, apt to get a " raw." 
THREE SHEETS IN THE WIND, unsteady from drink.— £ea. 
THREE -UP, a gambling game played by costers. Three half- 
pennies are thrown up, and when they fall all "heads," or 
all "tails," it is a mark ; and the man who gets the greatest 
number of marks out of a given amount— three, five, or 

m0 re wins. The costers are very quick and skilful at this 

game, and play fairly at it amongst themselves ; but should 
a stranger join in they invariably unite to cheat him. 
THRUMS, threepence. 
THRUMMER, a threepenny bit. 



Hosted by G00gk 



23b A DICTIONARY OF 

THRUPS, threepence. 
THUMPING, large, fine, or strong. 
THUNDERER, the Times newspaper 
THUNDERING, large, extra-sized. 
TIBBING OUT, going out of bounds.— Charterhouse. 
TICK credit, trust Johnson says it is a corruption of tkhet,- 
tradesmen s bills being formerly written on tickets or cards. 

Tn 11 TIC ^jQ ere n 0re 1 ' 1 iSequivalenfc t0 on ticket > or on trust. 

In use 1668. Cuthbert Bede, in Notes and Queries, supplies 

me with an earlier date, from the Gradw ad Oantabrigiam. 

"^IS^ ? P ° n J 8 "??? ^ hetber y° u have mone y or no-you may 

X^fi V l en ^°f ^ b0atS 0Ver ^e liver TOON TICKET i 

Decker s Gul's Hornbook, 1609 

TICKER, a watch. 

TICKET, "that's the ticket," i.e., what was wanted, or what is 
best. Corruption of "that is not etiquette," by adding, in 
vulgar pronunciation, th to the first e of etiquette: or, per- 
haps, from ticket, a bill or invoice. This phrase is some- 
times extended into ''that's the ticket for soup," in 
allusion to the card given to beggars for immediate relief at 
soup kitchens. — See tick. 

TIDY, «^ erably> or P rett J wel * ; " now did you get on to-day ?" 
— Oh, tidy."— Saxon. J 

TIED UP, given over, finished ; also married, in allusion to the 
liymenial knot, unless a jocose aUusion be intended to the 
halter (altar). 

TIFFIN, a breakfast, dejeuner a la f our chette.— Anglo Indian 
slang, 

TIGER, a boy employed to wait on gentlemen; one who waits 
on ladies is a page. 

TIGHT, close, stingy; hard up, short of cash ; tight, spruce, 
strong, active; "a tight lad," a smart, active young fel- 
low ; tight, drunk, or nearly so ; " tight laced," puri- 
tanical, over-precise. Money is said to be tight, when the 
public, from want of confidence in the aspect of affairs 
are not inclined to speculate. ' 

TIGHTNER, a dinner, or hearty meal. 

TIKE, or buffer lurking, dog stealing. 

TILE, a hat ; a covering for the head. 

" I'm a gent, I'm a gent, 

In the Kegent-street style, — 
Examine my vest, 
And look at my tile."— Popular Song. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 237 

Sometimes used in another sense, "having a tile loose," i.e., 

being slightly crazy. — See pantile. 
TIMBER MERCHANT, or spunk fencer, a lucifer match seller. 
TIME 0' DAY, a dodge, the latest aspect of affairs ; " that's your 

time o' day," i.e., Euge, well done; to put a person up to the 

time o' day, let him know what iso' clock, — to instruct him 

in the knowledge needful for him. 
TIN, money,— generally applied to silver. 
TINGE, the percentage allowed by drapers and clothiers to their 

assistants, upon the sale of old-fashioned articles. — See 

spiffs. 
TIN-POT, " he plays a tin-pot game," i.e., a low or shabby one. 

— Billiards. 
TIP, a douceur ; also to give, lend, or hand over anything to 

another person ; "come, tip up the tin," i.e., hand up the 

money ; " tip the wink," to inform by winking ; " tip us 

your fin," i.e., give me your hand; "tip one's boom off/' to 

make off, depart. — Sea. " To miss one's tip," to fail in a 

scheme. — Old cant. 
TIP THE DOUBLE, to " bolt," or run away from a creditor or 

officer. Sometimes tip the double to sherry, i.e., to the 

sheriff. 
TIP-TOP, first-rate, of the best kind. 
TIPTOPPER, a " swell,' 5 or dressy man, a " Gorger." 
TIT, favourite name for a horse. 
TIT FOR TAT, an equivalent. 
TITIVATE, to put in order, or dress up. 
TITLEY, drink. 
TITTER, a girl. 

'TIZER, the Morning Advertiser. 
TIZZY, a sixpence. Corruption of tester. 
TOASTING FORK, derisive term for a sword. 
TOBY CONSARN, a highway expedition. 

TOBY, a road ; " high toby," the turnpike road. " High toby 
spice," robbery on horse-back. — Don Juan, canto xi., 19. 

TODDLE, to walk as a child. 

TO-DO (pronounced quickly, and as one word), a disturbance, 
trouble ; " here's a pretty to-do," here is an unpleasant 
difficulty. This exactly tallies with the French word 
affaire (a faire). — See Forty's Vocabulary of East Anglia. 



Hosted by G00gk 



238 A DICTIONARY OF 

TOFFER, a well dressed, "gay " woman. 

TOFFICKY, dressy, showy. 

TOFT, a showy individual, a swell, a person who, according t 

a Yorkshirenian's vocabulary, is UP- ish. 
TOG, a coat. Latin, tog-a. — Ancient cant. 
TOG, to dress, or equip with an outfit; "togged out to th 

nines," dressed in the first style. 
TOGS, clothes ; " Sunday togs," best clothes. One of the oldes' 

cant words, in use in the time of Henry VIII. ■■ 

TO GEE. Y, clothes, harness, domestic paraphernalia of any kind 
TOKE, dry bread. 

TOL-LOL, or tol-lolish, tolerable, or tolerably. 
TOMMY.— See dickey. 
TOMMY, bread, — generally a penny roll. 
TOMMY, a truck, barter, the exchange of labour for goods, not 

money. Both term and practice general among English 

operatives for half-a century. 

TOMMY-MASTER, one who pays his workmen in goods, or 

gives them tickets upon tradesmen, with whom he shares 

the profit. 
TOMMY SHOP, where wages are generally paid to mechanics or 

others, who are expected to u take out" a portion of the 

money in goods. 

TOM-TOM, a street instrument, a small kind of drum beaten 
with the fingers, somewhat like the ancient tabor; a per- 
former on this instrument. It was imported, doubtless, 
with the Nigger melodies, — tom-toms being a favourite in- 
strument with the darkies. 

TONGUED, talkative ; " to tongue a person," i.e., talk him 
down. 

TOOL, "a poor tool," a bad hand at anything. 

TOOL, to drive a mail coach. 

TOOL, to pick pockets. 

TOOLER, a pickpocket. Moll-tooler, a female pickpocket. 

TOOTH, " he has cut his eye tooth," i.e., he is sharp enough, or 
old enough, to be so ; "up in the tooth," far advanced in 
age, — said often of old maids. Stable term for aged horses 
which have lost the distinguishing mark in their teeth. 

TOPHEAVY, drunk. 

TOPPED, hung or executed. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 239 

TOP-SAWYER, the principal of a party, or profession. " A top- 
sawyer, signifies a man that is a master genius in any pro- 
fession. It is a piece of Norfolk slang, and took its rise from 
Norfolk being a great timber county, where the top sawyers 
get double the wages of those beneath, them." — Randall's 
Diary, 1820. 

TOPS, dying speeches and gallows broadsides. 

TOPSY-TURVY, the bottom upwards. Grose gives an ingenious 
etymology of this once cant term, viz., "top-side turf -ways" 
—turf being always laid the wrong side upwards. 

TO-RIGHTS, excellent, very well, or good. 

TORPIDS, the second-class race-boats at Oxford, answering to 
the Cambridge sloggers. 

TOSHERS, men who steal copper from ships' bottoms in the 
Thames. 

TOSS, a measure of sprats. 

TOUCHED, slightly intoxicated. 

TOUCHER, "as near as a toucher," as near as possible without 
actually touching. — Coaching term. The old jaiweys, to show 
their skill, used to drive against things so close as absolutely 
to touch, yet without injury. This they called a toucher, 
or, touch and go, which was hence applied to anything which 
was within an ace of ruin. 

TOUCHY, peevish, irritable, Johnson terms it a low word. 

TOUT, to look out, or watch. — Old cant. 

TOUTER, a looker out, one who watches for customers, a hotel 
runner. 

TOWEL, to beat or whip. In Wanviclcshire au oaken stick is 
termed a towel— whence, perhaps, the vulgar verb. 

TOWELLING, a rubbing down with an oaten towel, a beating. 

TRACKS, "to make tracks," to run away. — See streak. 

TRANSLATOR, a man who deals in old shoes or clothes, and 
refits them for cheap wear. 

TRANSLATORS, second-hand boots mended and polished, and 
sold at a low price. Monmouth-street, Seven Dials, is a great 
market for translators. 

TRANSMOGRIPHY, to alter or change. 

TRAP, a "fast" term for a carriage of any kind. Traps, goods 
and chattels of any kind, but especially luggage and per- 
sonal effects ; in Australia, swag. 

TRAP, " up to trap," knowing, wide awake, — synonymous with 

" up to SNUFF." 



Hosted by G00gk 



240 A DICTIONARY OF 

TRAP, a sheriff's officer. 

TRAPESING, gadding or gossipiDg about in a slatternly way. 
— North. 

TRAVELLER, name given by one tramp to another. "A 
traveller at her Majesty's expense/' i.e., a transported 
felon, a convict. 

TREE, "up a tree," in temporary difficulties, — out of the 
way. American expression, derived from raccoon or bear- 
hunting. When Bruin is treed, or is forced up a tree 
by the dogs, it means that then the tug of war begins. — See 
'coon. Hence when an opponent is fairly run to bay, and 
can by no evasion get off, he is said to be treed. These 
expressions originated with Colonel Crockett. In Scotland' 
the phrase is " up a close," i.e., a passage, out of the usual 
track, or removed from observation. 

TRINE, to hang. — Ancient cant. 

TROLLING, sauntering or idling. 

TROLLY, or trolly-carts, term given by costermongers to a 
species of narrow cart, which can either be drawn by a 
donkey, or driven by hand. 

TROTTER, a tailor's man who goes round for orders. — Uni- 
versity. 

TROTTER CASES, shoes. 

TROTTERS, feet. Sheep's trotters, boiled sheep's feet, a 
favourite street delicacy. 

TRUCK, to exchange or barter. 

TRUCK-GUTTED, pot-bellied, corpulent.— Sea. 

TRUCKS, trowsers. 

TRUMP, a good fellow; "a regular trump," a jolly or good 
natured person, — in allusion to a trump card ; " trumps 
may turn up," i.e., fortune may yet favour me. 

TUB THUMPING, preaching or speech making. 

TUCK, a schoolboy's term for fruit, pastry, &c. Tuck in, or 
tuck out, a good meal. 

TUFTS, fellow commoners, i.e., wealthy students at the Uni- 
versity, who pay higher fees, dine with the Dons, and are 
distinguished by golden tufts, or tassels, in their caps. 

TUFT-HUNTER, a hanger on to persons of quality or wealth. 
Originally University slang, but now general. 

TUMBLE, to comprehend or understand. A coster was asked 
what he thought of Macbeth, — " the witches and the fighting 
was all very well, but the other moves I couldn't tumble to 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 241 

exactly; few on us can tumble to the jaw-breakers; they 
licks us, they do." 

^URF, horse racing, and betting thereon; "on the turf," one 
who occupies himself with race course business; said also 
of a street-walker, nymph of the pave\ 

?URKEY- MERCHANTS, dealers in plundered or contraband 
silk. Poulterers are sometimes termed turkey merchants, 
in remembrance of Home Tooke's answer to the boys at 
Eton, who wished in an aristocratic way to know who his 
father was, — a turkey merchant, replied Tooke; — his father 
was a poulterer. Turkey merchant, also, was formerly 
slang for a driver of turkeys or geese to market. 

^URNED OVER, to be stopped and searched by the police. 

TFRNED UP, acquitted by the magistrate or judge for want of 
evidence. 

'URNER OUT, a coiner of bad money. 

'URN OUT, personal show or appearance; a man with a showy 
carriage and horses is said to have a good turn out. 

?URNOVER, an apprentice who finishes with a second master 
the indentures he commenced with the first. 

'URNPIKE- SAILORS, beggars who go about dressed as sailors. 

^URN UP, a street fight ; a sudden leaving, or makiag off. 

TURN UP, to quit, change, abscond, or abaudon; "Ned has 
turned up," i.e. run away ; "I intend turning it up," i.e. 
leaving my present abode or altering my course of life. 
Also to happen; let's wait, and see what will turn up. 

'USHEROON, a crown piece, five shillings. 

?USSLE, a pull, struggle, fight, or argument. Johnson and 

Webster call it a vulgar word. 
^USSLE, to struggle, or argue. 
?WELVER, a shilling. 
'WIG, style, a-la-mode ; "get your strummel faked in twig-," i.e., 

have your hair dressed in style ; prime twig, in good order, 

and high spirits. — Pugilistic. 
^WIG, " to hop the twig," to decamp, "cut one's stick," to die. 
?WIG, to understand, detect, or observe. 
?WIST, brandy and gin mixed. 
? WIST, appetite ; " Will 's got a capital twist," 
PWITCHETTY, nervous, fidgetty. 

WITTER, " all in a twitter," in a fright, or fidgetty state. 

II 



Hosted by G00gk 



242 A DICTIONARY OF 

TWO-HANDEP awkward. 

TWOPENNY, the head; '• tuck in your twopenny," bend dowi 
your head. 

TWOPENNY-HOPS, low dancing rooms, the price of admissioi 
to which was formerly — and not infrequently now— twc 
pence. The clog hornpipe, the pipe dauce, flash jigs, anc 
hornpipes in fetters, & la Jack Sheppard. are the favourit* 
movements, all entered into with great spirit and "joyous 
laborious capering." — Mayhew. 

TYBURN COLLAR, the fringe of beard worn under the chin.— 

See NEWGATE COLLAR. 

TYE, or tie, a neckerchief. Proper hosier's term now, but slang 
thirty years ago, and as early as 1718. Called also, squeeze 

UNBETTY, to unlock.— See bettt. 

UNCLE, the pawnbroker. — See mt uncle. 

UIS1DER THE ROSE.— See rose. 

UNICORN, a style of driving with two wheelers abreast, anc 
one leader, — termed in the United States, a spike team 
Tandem is one wheeler and one leader. Random, three 
horses in line. 

UNUTTERABLES, trousers — See inexpressibles. 

UNWHISPERABLES, trousers. 

UP, " to be up to a thing or two," to be knowing, or under- 
standing ; "to put a man up to a move," to teach him a 
trick; " it's all up with him," i.e., it is all over with him, 
often pronounced U.P. , naming the two letters separately; 
"upa tree," see tree; "up to trap," "up to snuff, '- 
wide awake, acquainted with the last new move; '' up tc 
one's gossip," to be a match for one who is trying to take 
you in; — 'up to slum," proficient in roguery, capable of 
committing a theft successfully. 

UPPER BENJAMIN, a great coat. 

UPPER STOREY, or upper loft, a person's head ; "his upper 
storey is unfurnished," i.e., he does not know very much. 

UPPISH, proud, arrogant. 

USED UP, broken-hearted, bankrupt, fatigued. 

VAMOS, or vamous, to go, or be off. Spanish, vamos, " let us 
go !" Probably namus. or namous the costermonger s 
word, was from this, although it is generally considered back 



VAMPS, old stockings. From vamp, to piece. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 243 

v^ARDO, to look; " vardo the cassey," look at the house. 
Vardo formerly was old cant for a wagon. 

GARMENT, " you young varment, you !" you bad, or naughty 
boy. Corruption of vermin. 

VELVET, the tongue. 

VERTICAL-CARE-GRINDER, the treadmill. 

VIC, the Victoria Theatre, London, — patronised principally by 
costermongers and low people ; also the street abbreviation 
of the Christian name of her Majesty the Queen. 

VILLAGE, or the village, i.e., London. — Sporting. 

VILLE, or vile, a town or village, — pronounced phial, ovvial.— 

f French. 

VINNIED, mildewed, or sour. — Devonshire. 

VOKER, to talk; "can you voker Romany?" can you speak 
the canting language. — Latin, vocare ; Spanish, vooear. 

WABBLE, to move from side to side, to roll about. Johnson 
terms it a " low, barbarous word." 

WALKER ! or hookey walker ! an ejaculation of incredulity, 
said when a person is telling a story which you know to be 
all gammon, or false. The Saturday Revieivers explanation 
of the phrase is this : — " Years ago, there was a person 
named Walker, an aquiline-nosed Jew, who exhibited an 
orrery, which he called by the erudite name of Eidoura- 
nion. He was also a popular lecturer on astronomy, and 
often invited his pupils, telescope in hand, to take a sight 
at the moon and stars. The lecturer's phrase struck his 
school-boy auditory, who frequently "took a sight" with 
that gesture of outstretched arm. and adjustment to nose 
and eye, which was the first garnish of the popular saying. 
The next step was to assume phrase and gesture as the out- 
ward and visible mode of knowingness in general." A cor- 
respondent, however, denies this, and states that hookey 
walker was a magistrate of dreaded acuteness and incre- 
dulity, whose hooked nose gave the title of bea.k to all his 
successors; and, moreover, that the gesture of applying the 
thumb to the nose and agitating the little finger, as an ex- 
pression of "Don't you wish you may get it ?" is consi- 
derably older than the story in the Saturday Review would 
seem to indicate. There is a third explanation of hookey 
walker in Notes and Queries, iv„ 425. 

WALK INTO, to overcome to demolish; "I'll walk into his 
affections " i e. } I will scold or thrash him. The word 

R 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



244 



A DICTIONARY OF 



drive (which see) is used in an equally curious sense in 
slang speech. 

WALK OVER, a re-election without opposition.— Parliamentary,, 
bub derived from the Turf, where a horse— which has no 
rivals entered— walks over the course, and wins without 
exertion. 

WALK-THE BARBER to lead a girl astray. 

WALK YOUR CHALKS, be off, or run away,— spoken sharply 
by any one who wishes to get rid of you.— See chalks. 

WALL FLOWER a person who goes to a ball, and looks on 
without dancing, either from choice or not being able to 
obtain a partner. 

WALL-FLOWERS, left-offand « regenerated" clothes, exposed] 
for sale in Monmouth-stieet. 

WALLOP, to beat, or thrash. Mr. John Gough Nichols derives 
this word from an ancestor of the Earl of Portsmouth, one 
Sir John Wallop, Knight of the Garter, who, in King 
Henry VIIL's time, distinguished himself by walloping 
the French ; but it is more probably connected with weal, 
a livid swelling in the skin, after a blow. — See pot walloper. 

WALLOPING, a beating or thrashing; sometimes in an adjec- 
tive sense, as big, or very large. 

WAPPING, or whopping, of a large size, great. 

WARM, rich, or well off. 

WARM, to thrash, or beat ; " I'll warm your jacket." 

WASH, "it won't wash/' i.e., will not stand investigation, is 
not genuine, can't be believed. 

WATCHMAKER, a pickpocket, or stealer of watches. 

WATCH AND SEALS, a sheep's head and pluck. 

WATER-BEWITCHED, very weak tea, the third brew (or the 
first at some houses), grog much diluted. 

WATER OF LIFE, gin. 

WATERMAN, a light blue silk handkerchief. The Oxford and 
Cambridge boats' crews always wear these— light blue for 
Cambridge, and a darker shade for Oxford. 

WATTLES, ears. 

WAXY, cross, ill-tempered. 

WEDGE, silver.— Ota cant. 

WEDGE-FEEDER, silver spoon. 

WEED, a cigar ; the weed, tobacco generally. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 245 

WELL, to pocket, or place as in a well. 

WENCH, provincial and old-fashioned term for a girl, derived 
from wink. In America, negro girls only are termed 

WENCHES. 

WEST CENTRAL, a water-closet, the initials being the same 
as those of the London Postal District. It is said that for 
this reason very delicate people refuse to obey Rowland 
Hill's instructions in this particular. 

WET, a drink, a " drain." 

WET, to drink. Low people generally ask an acquaintance to 
WET any recently purchased article, i.e., to stand treat on 
the occasion ; " wet your whistle," i.e., take a drink ; " wet 
the other eye," i.e., take another glass. 

WET QUAKER, a drunkard of that sect; a man who pretends 
to be religious, aud is a dram drinker on the sly. 

WHACK, a share or lot; "give. me my whack," give me my 
share. Scotch, sweg, or swack. 

WHACK, to beat ; whack, or whacking, a blow or thrashing. 

WHACKING, large, fine, or strong. 

WHALE, " very like a whale in a teacup," said of anything 
that is very improbable ; taken from a speech of Polonius 
in Hamlet. 

WHEEDLE, to entice by soft words. "Tbis word cannot be 
found to derive itself from any other, and therefore is 
looked upon as wholly invented by the canters." — Triumph 
of Wit, 1705. 

WHERRET, or worrit, to scold, trouble, or annoy. — Old English. 

WHIDDLE, to enter into a parley, or hesitate with many 
words, &c. ; to inform, or discover. 

WHIDS, words. — Old Gipsey cant. 

WHIM-WAM, an alliterative term, synonymous with fiddle- 
faddle, riff-raff, &c, denoting nonsense, rubbish, &c. 

WHIP, to "whip anything up" to take it up quickly; from 
the method of hoisting heavy goods or horses on board 
ship by a whip, or running tackle, from the yard-arm. 
Generally used to express anythiug dishonestly taken — 
& Estrange and Johnson. 

WHIP JACK, a sham shipwrecked sailor, called also a turnpike 

SAILOR. 

WHIPPER-SNAPPER, a waspish, diminutive person. 
WHIPPING THE CAT, when an operative works at a private 
house by the day. Term used amongst tailors and carpenters. 



Hosted by G00gk 



246 A DICTIONARY OF 

WHISKER. There is a curious slang phrase connected with, 
this word. When an improbable story is told, the remark 
is, " the mother of that was a whisker," meaning it is a lie. 

WHISTLE, "as clean as a whistle," neatly, or "slickly done," 
as an American would say; "to wet one's whistle," to 
take a driuk. This is a very old term. Chaucer says of 
the Miller of Trumpington's wife (Canterbury Tales, 4153) — 

" So was liir joly whistal well y-wet •" 

"to whistle for anything," to stand small chance of 
getting it, from the nautical custom of whistling for a wind 
in a calm, which of course comes none the sooner for it. 

WHITE FEATHER, " to show the white feather," to evince 
cowardice. In the times when great attention was paid to 
the breeding of game-cocks, a white feather in the tail was 
considered a proof of cross-breeding. 

WHITE LIE, a harmless lie, one told to reconcile people at 
variance; "mistress is not at home, sir," is a white lie 
often told by servants. 

WHITE LIVER'D, or liver faced, cowardly, much afraid, 
very mean. 

WHITE PROP, a diamond pin. 

WHITE SATIIST, gin,— term amongst women. 

WHITE TAPE, gin,— term used principally by female servants. 

WHITE WINE, the fashionable term for gin. 

" Jack Randall then impatient rose, 

And said, 'Tom's speech were just as fine 
If he would call that first of go's 
By that genteeler name — white wine.'" 

Randall's Diary, 1820. 

WHITECHAPEL, or Westminster brougham, a costermonger's 

donkey-barrow. 
WHITECHAPEL, the " upper-cut," or strike.— Pugilistic. 
WHITEWASH, when a person has taken the benefit of the 

Insolvent Act he is said to have been whitewashed. 
WHOP, to beat, or hide. Corruption of whip; sometimes 

spelled wap. 
WHOP- STRAW, cant name for a countryman ; Johnny Whop- 

straw, in allusion to threshing. 
WHOPPER, a big one, a lie. 
WIDDLE, to shine.— See Oliver. 
WIDE-AWAKE, a broad-brimmed felt, or stuff hat,— so called 

because it never had a nap, and never wants one. 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 247 

VIDO, wide awake, no fool. 

VIFE, a fetter fixed to one leg. — Prison. 

VIFFLE -WOFFLES, in the dumps, sorrow, stomach ache. 

.VIGGING, a rebuke before comrades. If the head of a firm 
calls a clerk into the parlour, and rebukes him, it is an 
earwigging ; if done before the other clerks, it is a wigging. 

7VTLD, a village. — Tramps' term. — See vile. 

WILD, vexed, cross, passionate. In the United Slates the 
word mad is supplemented with a vulgar meaning similar to 
our Cockneyism, wild; and to make a man mad on the 
other side of the Atlantic is to vex him, or "rile" his temper 
— not to render him a raving maniac, or a fit subject for 
Bedlam. 

WILD OATS, youthful pranks. 

WIND, " to raise the wind," to procure money ; " to slip one's 
wind," coarse expression meaning to die. 

WIND, " I'll wind your cotton," i.e., I will give you some trouble. 
The Byzantine General, Narses, used the same kind of threat 
to the Greek Empress, — " I will spin such a thread that 
they shall not be able to unravel." 

WINDED-SETTLED, transported for life. 

WINDOWS, the eyes, or " peepers." 

WINEY, intoxicated. 

WINKIN, "he went off like winkin," i.e., very quickly. 

WINKS, periwinkles. 

WINN, a penny. — Ancient cant 

WIPE, a pocket handkerchief. — Old cant. 

WIPE, a blow. 

WIPE, to strike ; " he fetch t me a wipe over the knuckles," he 
struck me on the knuckles; " to wipe a person down," to 
flatter or pacify a person ; to wipe off a score, to pay one's 
debts, in allusion to the slate or chalk methods of account 
keeping ; " to wipe a person's eye," to shoot game which he 
has missed — Sporting term; hence to obtain an advantage 
by superior activity. 

WIRE, a thief with long fingers, expert at picking ladies' pockets. 

WOBBLESHOP, where beer is sold without a license. 

WOODEN SPOON, the la*t j unior optime who takes a University 
degree ; denoting one who is only fit to stay at home, and 
stir porridge. — Cambridge. 
WOODEN WEDGE, the last name in the classical honours list 



Hosted by G00gk 



248 A DICTIONARY OF 

at Cambridge. The last in mathematical honours had Ion 
been known as the wooden spoon; but when the classic? 
Tripos was instituted, in 1824, it was debated among th 
undergraduates what sobriquet should be given to the las 
on the examination list. Curiously enough, the name tha 
year which happened to be last was wedgewood (a distin 
gui shed Wrangler). Hence the title. 
WOOL, courage, pluck ; " you are not half-woOLLED," term 
reproach from one thief to another. 

WOOLBIRD, a lamb; "wing of a woolbird," a shoulder 
lamb. 

WOOL-GATHERING, said of any person's wits when they an 
wandering, or in a reverie. — IHorio. 

WOOL-HOLE, the workhouse. 

WORK, to plan, or lay down and execute any course of action 
to perform anything; "to work the bulls," i.e., to get ri<. 
of false crown pieces ; " to woek the oracle," to succeed 
by manoeuvring, to concert a wily plan, to victimise,—^ 
possible reference to the stratagems and bribes used to 
corrupt the Delphic oracle, and cause it to deliver a favour 
able response. "To work a street or neighbourhood/ 
trying at each house to sell all one can, or so bawling that 
every housewife may know what you have to sell. The 
general plan is to drive a donkey barrow a short distance, 
and then stop and cry. The term implies thoroughness ; to 
" work a street weli" is a common saying with a coster 

WORM, see pump. 

WORMING, removing the beard of an oyster or muscle. 

W. P., or warming pan. A clergyman who holds a living pro 
tempore, under a bond of resignation, is sryled a w. P., or 
warming pan rector, because he keeps the place warm for 
his successor. — Clerical slang. 

WRINKLE, an idea, or fancy; an additional piece of knowledge 
which is supposed to be made by a wrinkle a posteriori. 

WRITE, " to write one's name on a joint," to have the first 
cut at anything, — leaving sensible traces of one's presence 
on it. 

YACK, a watch; to "church a tack," to take it out of its case 
to avoid detection. 

YARD OF CLAY, a long, old-fashioned tobacco pipe, also called 
a churchwarden. 

YARMOUTH CAPON, a bloater, or red herring.— Old —Ray's 
Proverbs, 



Hosted by G00gk 



MODERN SLANG AND CANT WORDS. 249 

YARN, a long story, or tale ; " a tough yarn," a tale hard to 
be believed; "spin a yarn," tell a tale. — Sea. 

Y AY- NAY, "a poor yay-nay" fellow, one who has no conver- 
sational power, and can only answer yci or nay to a question. 

YELLOW BELLY, a native of the Fens of Lincolnshire, or the 
Isle of Ely, — in allusion to the frogs and a yellow-bellied eel 
caught there ; they are also said to be loeb-footed. 

YELLOW-BOY, a sovereign, or any gold coin. 

YELLOW-GLOAK, a jealous man. 

YELLOW-JACK, the yellow fever prevalent in the West Indies. 

YELLOW-MAN, a yellow silk handkerchief. 

YOKEL, a countryman. — West. 

YOKUFF, a chest, or large box. 

YORKSHIRE, " to Yorkshire," or " come Yorkshire over any 
person," is to cheat or bite them. — North. 

YORKSHIRE ESTATES, " I will do it when I come into my 
Yorkshire estates," — meaning if I ever have the money 
or the means. The phrase is said to have originated with 
Dr. Johnson. 

YOUNKER, in street language, a lad or a boy. Term in general 
use amongst costermongers, cabmen, and old-fashioned 
people. Bamefield's Affectionate Shepherd, 1594, has the 
phrase, "a seemelie younker." Danish and Friesic, JONKER. 
In the Navy, a naval cadet is usually termed a younker. 

YOUR-NIBS, yourself. 

ZIPH, language oe, a way of disguising English in use among 
the students at Winchester College. Compare medical 
greek. 

ZOUNDS, a sudden exclamation, — abbreviation of God's wounds. 



Hosted by G00gk 



Hosted by GoOgle 



SOME ACCOUNT OF THE 

BACK SLANG, 

THE SECRET LANGUAGE OF COSTERMONGERS. 



The coster mongers of London number between 
thirty and forty thousand. Like other low tribes, 
they boast a language, or secret tongue, in which 
they hide their earnings, movements, and other 
private affairs. This costers' speech, as Mayhew 
remarks, offers no new fact, or approach to a fact, 
for philologists ; it is not very remarkable for origi- 
nality of construction ; neither is it spiced with low 
humour, as other cant. But the costermongers 
boast that it is known only to themselves; that it 
is far beyond the Irish, and puzzles the Jews. 

The main principle of this language is spelling 
the words backwards, — or rather, pronouncing them 
rudely backwards. Sometimes, for the sake of har- 
mony, an extra syllable is prefixed, or annexed; 
and, occasionally, the word is given quite a diffe- 



Hosted by G00gk 



252 THE PRIJNCIPLE OF THE BACK SLANG. 

rent turn in rendering it backwards, from what a 
uninitiated person w T ould have expected. One coste 
told May hew that he often gave the end of a wor 
" a new turn, just as if he chorussed it with a to 
de-rol." Besides, the coster has his own idea of th 
proper way of spelling words, and is not to be con 
vinced but by an overwhelming show of learning 
— and frequently not then, for he is a very lieac 
strong fellow. By the time a coster has spelt a 
ordinary word of two or three syllables in the prope 
way, and then spelt it backwards, it has become 
tangled knot that no etymologist could unravel 
The word generalise, for instance, is considered 
to be " shilling" spelt backwards. Sometimes Slan. 
and Cant words are introduced, and even these 
when imagined to be tolerably well known, are pro 
nounced backwards. Other terms, such as GEN, 
shilling, and flatch, a halfpenny, help to confuse 
the outsider. 

After a time, this back language, or back- 
SLANG, as it is called by the costermongers them 
selves, comes to be regarded by the rising genera- 
tion of street sellers as a distinct and regular mode 
of speech. They never refer words, by inverting 
them, to their originals; and the YENEPS and es- 
CLOPS, and NAMOWS, are looked upon as proper, 
but secret terms. " But it is a curious fact, that 
lads who become costermongers' boys, without pre- 
vious association with the class, acquire a very ready 



Hosted by G00gk 



BOYS AND GIRLS SOON ACQUIRE IT. 



omraand of the language, and this though they 
re not only unable to spell, but ' don't know a 
3tter in a book.*' " They soon obtain a con side- 
tie stock vocabulary, so that they converse rather 
com the memory than the understanding. Amongst 
le senior costermongers, and those who pride 
lemselves on their proficiency in back-slang, a 
onversation is often sustained for a whole evening, 
specially if any " flatties" are present whom they 
ish to astonish or confuse. The women use it 
Daringly, but the girls are generally well acquainted 
with it. 

The addition of an s, I should state, always 
forms the plural, so that this is another source of 
complication. For instance, looman in the BACK- 

SLANG, is NAMOW, and NAMUS, Or NAMOWS, is 

women, not nemow. The explorer, then, in undoing 
the BACK-SLANG, and turning the word NAMUS 
once more into English, would have saman, — a 
novel and very extraordinary rendering of women. 
Where a word is refractory in submitting to a back 
rendering, as in the case of pound, letters are made 
to change positions for the sake of harmony; 
thus, we have DUNOF, a pound, instead of dnnop 
which nobody could pleasantly pronounce. This 
will remind the reader of the Jews' "old do! old 
do r instead of old clothes, old dolhes, which would 
tire even the patience of a Jew to repeat all day. 

* Mayheiv, vol. L, p. 24. 



Hosted by G00gk 



25i THE BACK ..LANG UNKNOWN TO THE POLICE. 

This singular back tongue has been in vogu 
about twenty-five years. It is, as before stated 
soon acquired, and is principally used by the coster 
mongers (as the specimen Glossary will show), foi 
communicating the secrets of their street tradings 
the cost and profit of the goods, and for keepin 
their natural enemies, the police, in the dark. Cool 
the esclop (look at the police) is often said 
amongst them, when one of the constabulary make; 
his appearance. 

Perhaps on no subject is the costermonger so par- 
ticular as on money matters. All costs and profit! 
he thinks should be kept profoundly secret. The 
Back Slang, therefore, gives the various smal 
amounts very minutely. 

FLATCH, halfpenny. 

YENEP, penny. 

OWT-YENEPS, twopence. 

ERTH-YENEPS, threepence. 

ROUF-YENEPS, fourpence. 

EVIF, or EWIF-YENEPS, fivepence. 

EXIS-YENEPS, sixpence. 

NEVIS-YENEPS, sevenpence. 

TEAICH, or THEG-YENEPS, eightpence. 

ENIN-YENEPS, ninepence. 

NET-YENEPS, tenpence. 

NEVELE-YENEPS, elevenpence. 

EVLENET-YENNEPS, twelvepence. 

GEN, or GENERALIZE, one shilling, or twelvepence. 

YENEP-FLATCH, three halfpence. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE COSTERMONGERS' TERMS I R MONEY. 255 

OWT-YENEP-FLATCH, twopence halfpenny. 

&c. &c. &c. 
GEN, or ENO-GEN, one shilling. 
OWT-GENS, two shillings. 
ERTH-GENS, three shillings. 

The GENS continue in the same sequence as the 
yeneps above, excepting theg-gens, 8s., which is 
usually rendered THEG-GUY, — a deviation with 
ample precedents in all civilised tongues. 

YENORK, a crown piece, or five shillings. 
FLATCH-YENORK, half a-crown. 

Beyond this amount the costermonger reckons 
after an intricate and complicated mode. Fifteen 
shillings would be erth-evif-GENS, or, literally, 
three times 5s. ; seventeen shillings would be erth- 
YENORK-FLATCH, or three crowns and a half; or, 
by another mode of reckoning, erth-evif-gens 
flatch-yenork, i.e., three times 5s., and half- 
a- crown. 

DUNOP, a pound. 

Further than which the costermonger seldom goes 
in money reckoning. 

In the following Glossary only those words are 
given which costermongers principally use, — the 
terms connected with street traffic, the names of the 
different coins, vegetables, fruit and fish, techni- 
calities of police courts, &c. 



Hosted by G00gk 



256 WHY A GLOSSARY IS FORMED. 

The reader might naturally think that a system 
of speech so simple as the back-slang would re- 
quire no Glossary; but he will quickly perceive, 
from the specimens given, that a great many words 
in frequent use in a BACK sense, have become so 
twisted as to require a little glossarial explanation. 



Hosted by G00gk 



GLOSSARY 



BACK SLANG. 



IRK, a "crib," — house. 
OOL, to look. 

OOL HIM, look at him. A phrase frequently used when one 
costermonger warns another of the approach of a policeman. 

DAB, bad. 

3ABHENO, one bad, or a bad market. — See doogheko. 

DAB TROS, a bad sort. 

DA-ERB, bread. 

DEB, or dab, a bed ; " I'm on to the dee," I'm going to bed. 

DILLO-NAMO, an old woman. 

DLOG, gold. 

DOOG, good. 

DOOGHENO, literally " one-good," or < v good-one," but imply- 
ing generally a good market. 

DOOGHENO HIT, one good hit. A coster remarks to a 
"mate," Jack made a doogheno hit tins morning ," imply- 
ing that he did well at market, or sold out with good profit. 

DUNOP, a pound. 

ERTH, three. 

EARTH * GENS, three shillings. 

EARTH SITH-NOMS, three months. 

EARTH YANr-TOPS, or yeneps, threepence. 

EDGABAC, cabbage. 

My informant preferred eaeth to eeth,- for the reason, he said, " that 
it looked more sensible 1" 

S 



Hosted by G00gk 



"°° GLOSSARY OF 

EDGENARO, an orange. 

E-FINK, knife. 

EKAME, a "make," or swindle. 

EKOM, a "moke," or donkey. 

ELRIG, a girl. 

ENIF, fine. 

ENIN GENS, nine shillings. 

ENIN YENEP, ninepence. 

ENIN YANNOPS, or yeneps, ninepence. 

ENO, one. 

ERIF, fire. 

ERTH GENS, three shillings. 

ERTH-PU, three-up, a street game. 

ERTH SITH-NOMS, three months,—^ term of imprisonineu 

unfortunately very familiar to the lower orders. 
ERTH-YENEPS, threepence. 
ESCLOP, the police. 
ES-ROPH, or es-roch, a horse. 
EVIF- YENEPS, five pence. 
EVLENET-GENS, twelve shillings. 
EVLENET SITH-NOMS, twelve months. 
EWIF-GENS, a crown, or five shillings. 
EWIF- YENEPS, fivepence. 
EXIS GENS, six shillings. 
EXIS-EWIF-GENS, six times five shillings, i.e., 30s. All money* 

may be reckoned in this manner, either with yeneps 01 

GENS. 

EXIS-EVIF YENEPS, elevenpence, -literally, "sixpence anc 
fivepence = elevenpence." This mode of reckoDiDg, distinct 
from the preceding, is also common amongst those who use 
the back slang. 

EXIS SITH-NOMS, six months. 
EXIS- YENEPS, sixpence. 
FI-HEATH, a thief. 
FLATCH, a half, or halfpenny. 
FLATCH KEN-NURD, half drunk. 
FLATCH YENEP, a halfpenny. 
FLATCH- YENORK, half-a-crown. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE BACK SLANG. 



259 



IN, twelvepence, or one shilling. Possibly an abbreviation of 

argent, cant term for silver. — See following. 
1NERALIZE, a shilling, generally shortened to gen. 
IN-NET, or net gens, ten shillings. 
EL-BAT, a table. 
ELPA, an apple. 
ENNETSEENO, stinking. 
ENNURD, drunk. 
EW, a week. 
EWS, or skew, weeks. 
IBB, a brick. 
:00L, to look. 
AWT, tall. 

EVEN, in back slang, is sometimes allowed to stand for eleven , 
for the reason that it is a number which seldom occurs. An 
article is either lOd. or Is. 
UR-AC-HAM, mackarel. 
;OTTAB, bottom. 
TTR, rum. 

"ALE, or nael, lean. 
AM, a man. 

^AMESCLOP, a policeman. 

sTAMOW, a woman ; dillo namow, an old woman. 
STEERGS, greens. 

SETENIN GENS, nineteen shillings. 
S'EETEWIF GENS, fifteen shillings. 
STEETEXIS, or netexis gens, sixteen shillings. 
tfETNEVIS GENS, seventeen shillings. 
frET-THEG GENS, eighteen shillings. 
NEETRITH GENS, thirteen shillings. 
NEETROUF GENS, fourteen shillings. 
NET- GEN, ten shillings, or half a sovereign. 
NET-YENEPS, tenpence. 
NEVELE GENS, eleven shillings. 

NEVELE YENEPS, elevenpence,— generally levbn yeneps. 
NEVIS GENS, seven shillings. 

NEVIS STRETCH, seven years' transportation, or imprison - 
m ent. — See stretch, in the Slang Dictionary. 

S 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



2 GO GLOSSARY OF 

NEVIS YENEPS, sevenpence. 

NIRE, rain. 

NIG, gin. 

NI-OG OT TAKRAM, going to market. 

NITRAPH, a farthing. 

NOL, long. 

NOOM, the moon. 

NOS-RAP, a parson. 

OCCABOT, tobacco ; " tib of occabot," bit of tobacco. 

ON, no. 

ON DOOG, no good. 

OWT GENS, two shillings. 

OWT Y^ENEPS, twopence. 

PAC, a cap. 

PINURT POTS, turnip tops. 

POT, top. 

RAPE, a pear. 

REEB, beer. 

REV-LIS, silver. 

ROUF-EFIL, for life,— sentence of punishment. 

ROUF-GENS, four shillings. 

ROUF-YENEPS, fourpence. 

RUTAT, or rattat, a "tatur," or potato. 

SAY, yes. 

SEE-O, shoes. 

SELOPAS, apples. 

SHIF, fish. 

SIR-ETCH, cherries. 

SITH-NOM, a month. 

SLAOC, coals. 

SLOP, a policeman.— See Dictionary of Slang and Cant Words. 

SNEERG, greens. 

SOUSH, a house. 

SPINSRAP, parsnips. 

SEES- WORT, trowsers. 

STARPS, sprats. 

STOOB, boots. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE BACK SLANG. 261 

TORRAC, carrots. 

TUN", nuts. 

TUNLAWS, walnuts. 

WBET-SIO, oysters. 

ACH, a hat. 

AF, or taffy, fat. 

HEG, or teaich gens, eight shillings. 

EAICH-GUY, eight shillings, — a slight deviation from the 
numerical arrangement of gens. 

'ENIP, a pint. 

HEG YENEPS, eightpence. 

'IB, a bit, or piece. 

'OAC, or tog, a coat. Tog is the old cant term. — See Dictionary 
of Slang, <&c. 

OAC-TISAW, a waistcoat. 

OL, lot, stock, or share. 
TOP 0' REEB, a pot of beer. 
TOP-YOB, a pot boy. 
rORRAC, a carrot. 
TRACK (or trag), a quart. 
TROSSENO, literally, " one sort," but the costermongers use it 

to imply anything that is bad. 
WAR-RAB, a barrow. 
WEDGE, a Jew. 
YAD, a day ; tads, days. 
YADNAB, brandy. 
YENEP, a penny. 

YENEP-A-TIME, penny each time, — term in betting. 
YENEP-FLATCH, three halfpence, — all the halfpence and 

pennies continue in the same sequence. 
YAP-POO, pay up. 
YEKNOD, or jerk-nod, a donkey. 
YENORK, a crown. 
YOB, a boy. 
ZEB, best. 



Hosted by G00gk 



Hosted by GoOgle 



SOME ACCOUNT OF THE 

RHYMING SLANG, 

THE SECRET LANGUAGE OF 

CHAUNTEES AND PATTERERS. 



There exists in London a singular tribe of men, 
known amongst the "fraternity of vagabonds" as 
Chaunters and Patterers. Botli classes are great 
talkers. The first sing or chaunt through the public 
thoroughfares ballads — political and humorous — 
carols, dying speeches, and the various other kinds 
of o-allows and street literature. The second de- 
liver street orations on grease-removing compounds, 
plating powders, high polishing blacking, and the 
thousand and one wonderful pennyworths that are 
retailed to gaping mobs from a London kerb stone. 
They are quite a distinct tribe from the coster- 
mongers; indeed, amongst tramps, they term them- 
selves the " harristocrats of the streets," and boast 
that they live by their intellects. Like the coster- 



Hosted by Google 



264= THE ORIGIN OF THE RHYMING SLANG. 

mongers, however, they have a secret tongue o; 
Cant speech, known only to each other. This Cant 
which has nothing to do with that spoken by the 
costermongers, is known in Seven Dials and else 
where as the rhyming slang, or the substitution 
of words and sentences which rhyme with other 
words intended to be kept secret. The chaunter's 
Cant, therefore, partakes of his calling, and he 
transforms and uses up into a rough speech the 
various odds and ends of old songs, ballads, and 
street nick-names, which are found suitable to his 
purpose. Unlike nearly all other systems of Cant, 
the rhyming Slang is not founded upon allegory; 
unless we except a few rude similes, thus — i'm 
afloat is the rhyming Cant for boat, SORROWFUL 
TALE is equivalent to three months in jail, ARTFUL 
dodger signifies a lodger, and a snake in the 
grass stands for a looking-glass — a meaning that 
would delight a fat Chinaman, or a collector of 
Oriental proverbs. But, as in the case of the 
costers' speech and the old gipsey- vagabond Cant, 
the chaunters and patterers so interlard this rhyming 
Slang with their general remarks, while their or- 
dinary language is so smothered and subdued, that, 
unless when they are professionally engaged and 
talking of their wares, they might almost pass for 
foreigners. 

From the inquiries I have made of various 
patterers and "paper workers," I learn that the 



Hosted by G00gk 



SPOKEN PKJNCIPALLY BY VAGABOND POETS. 265 

rhyming Slang was introduced about twelve or 
fifteen years ago. Numbering this class of ora- 
torical and bawling wanderers at twenty thousand, 
scattered over Great Britain, including London 
and the large provincial towns, we thus see the 
number of English vagabonds who converse in 
rhyme and talk poetry, although their habitations 
and mode of life constitute a very unpleasant 
Arcadia. These nomadic poets, like the other 
talkers of Cant or secret languages, are stamped 
with the vagabond's mark, and are continually on 
the move. The married men mostly have lodgings 
in London, and come and go as occasion may 
require. A few never quit London streets, but the 
greater number tramp to all the large provincial 
fairs, and prefer the MONKERY (country) to town 
life. Some transact their business in a systematic 
way, sending a post-office order to the Seven Dials 
printer, for a fresh supply of ballads or penny 
books, or to the SWAG SHOP, as the case may be, 
for trinkets and gewgaws, to be sent on by rail to 
a given town by the time they shall arrive there. 

When any dreadful murder, colliery explosion, 
or frightful railway accident has happened in a 
country district, three or four chaunters are gene- 
rally on the spot in a day or two after the occur- 
rence, vending and bawling "A True and Faithful 
Account" &c, which " true and faithful account" 
was concocted purely in the imaginations of the 



Hosted by G00gk 



266 PATTEREES AND CHEAP JACKS. 

successors of Catnach and Tommy Pitts/* behind 
the counters of their printing shops in Seven Dials. 
And but few fairs are held in any part of England 
without the patterer being punctually at his post, 
with his nostrums, or real gold rings (with the story 
of the wager laid by the gentleman — see fawney 
bouncing, in the Dictionary), or save-alls for 
candlesticks, or paste which, when applied to the 
strop, makes the dullest razor keen enough to hack 
broom handles and sticks, and after that to have 
quite enough sharpness left for splitting hairs, or 
shaving them off the back of one of the clod- 
hoppers' hands, looking on in amazement. And 
CHEAP JOHN, too, with his coarse jokes, and no 
end of six-bladed knives, and pocket-books, con- 
taining information for everybody, with pockets to 
hold money, and a pencil to write with in the 
bargain, and a van stuffed with the cheap produc- 
tions of Sheffield and " Brummagem," — he, too, is 
a patterer of the highest order, and visits fairs, and 
can hold a conversation in the rhyming Slang. 

Such is a rough description of the men who 
speak this jargon; and simple and ridiculous as 
the vulgar scheme of a rhyming Slang may appear, 
it must always be regarded as a curious fact in 
linguistic history. In order that the reader's 
patience may not be too much taxed, only a 

* The famous printers and publishers of sheet song3 and last 
dying speeches thirty years ago. 



Hosted by G00gk 



PATTERERS "WELL UP" IN STREET SLANG. 267 



\ selection of rhyming words has been given in the 
- Glossary, — and these for the most part, as in the 
; case of the back Slang, are the terms of everyday 
life, as used by this order of tramps and hucksters. 
It must not be supposed, however, that the 
chaunter or. patterer confines himself entirely to 
this Slang when conveying secret intelligence. On 
the contrary, although he speaks not a u leash of 
languages," yet is he master of the beggars' Cant, 
and is thoroughly " up" in street Slang. The fol- 
lowing letter, written by a chaunter to a gentleman 
who took an interest in his welfare, will show his 
capabilities in this line. 

Dear Friend,* 

Excuse the liberty, since i saw you last i 

* The writer, a Btreet chaunter of ballads and last dying 
speeches, alludes in his letter to two celebrated criminals, Thos 
Drory, the murderer of Jael Denny, and Sarah Chesham, who 
poisoned her husband, accounts of whose Trials and "Horrid 
Deeds" he had been selling. I give a glossary of the cant words : 

Topped, hung. 

Sturaban, a prison. 

Quid, a sovereign. 

James, ib, 

Clye, a pocket. 

Career, a house or residence. 

Sped on the Brum, to be off to 

the country. 
All Square, all right, or quite 

well. 



Thickun, a crownpiece. 
Dowry ofParny, a lot of rain. 
Stumped, bankrupt. 
Coopered, spoilt. 
Bossman, a farmer. 

*.** Drory was a farmer. 
Patter, trial. 

Toys, last dying speeches. 
Dies, ib. 

Croaks, ib, 

Burick) a woman. 



Hosted by G00gk 



268 CURIOUS LETTER FROM A CHAUNTER. 

have not earned a thickun, we have had such a 
Dowry of Parny that it completely stumped or 
Coopered Drory the Bossmans Patter therefore i 
am broke up and not having another friend but 
you i wish to know if you would lend me the 
price of 2 Gross of Tops, Dies, or Croaks, which 
is 7 shillings, of the above mentioned worthy and 
Sarah Chesham the Essex Burick for the Poisoning 
job, they are both to be topped at Springfield 
Sturaban on Tuesday next, i hope you will oblige 
me if you can for it will be the means of putting a 
Quid or a James in my Clye. i will call at your 
Carser on Sunday Evening next for an answer, for 
i want to Speel on the Drum as soon as possible, 
hoping you and the family are All Square, 

I remain Your obedient Servant, 



Hosted by G00gk 



GLOSSAKY 



EHYMIKG SLANG. 



ABRAHAM'S WILLING, a shilling. 

ALACOMPAIN, rain. 

ALL AFLOAT, a coat. 

ANY RACKET, a penny faggot. 

APPLES AND PEARS, stairs. 

ARTFUL DODGER, a lodger. 

ARTICHOKE RIPE, smoke a pipe. 

BABY PAPS, caps. 

BARNET FAIR, hair. 

BATTLE OF THE NILE, a tile— vulgar term for a hat, 

BEN FLAKE, a steak. 

BILLY BUTTON, mutton. 

BIRCH BROOM, a room. 

BIRD LIME, time. 

BOB, MY PAL, a gal, — vulgar pronunciation of girl. 

BONNETS SO BLUE, Irish stew. 

BOTTLE OF SPRUCE, a deuce,— slang for twopence. 

BOWL THE HOOP, soup. 

BRIAN O'LINN, gin. 

BROWN BESS, yes— the affirmative. 

BROWN JOE, no— the negative. 

BULL AND COW, a row. 

BUSHY PARK, a lark. 

BUTTER FLAP, a cap. 



Hosted by G00gk 



270 GLOSSARY OF 

GAIN AND ABEL, a table. 

CAMDEN TOWN, a brown,— vulgar term for a halfpenny, 

CASTLE RAG, a flag, — slang term for fourpence. 

CAT AND MOUSE, a house. 

CHALK FARM, the arm. 

CHARING CROSS, a horse. 

CHARLEY LANCASTER, a handkercher,— vulgar pronuncia- 
tion of handkerchief. 

CHARLEY PRESCOTT, waistcoat. 

CHERRY RIPE, a pipe. 

CHEVY CHASE, the face. 

CHUMP (or chunk) OF WOOD, no good. 

COW AND CALF, to laugh. 

COVENT GARDEN, a farden — Cockney pronunciation of 
farthing. 

COWS AND KISSES, mistress or missus— referring to the 
ladies. 

CURRANTS AND PLUMS, thrums,— slang for threepence. 

DAISY RECROOTS (so spelt by my informant of Seven 
Dials ; he means, doubtless, recruits), a pair of boots. 

DAN TUCKER, butter. 

DING DONG, a song. 

DRY LAND, you understand. 

DUKE OF YORK, take a walk. 

EAST AND SOUTH, a mouth. 

EAT A FIG, to " crack a crib," to break into a house, or com- 
mit a burglary. 

EGYPTIAN HALL, a ball. 

ELEPHANT'S TRUNK, drunk. 

EPSOM RACES, a pair of braces. 

EYERTON TOFFEE, coffee. 

FANNY BLAIR, the hair. 

FILLET OF VEAL, the treadwheel, house of correction. 

FINGER AND THUMB, rum. 

FLAG UNFURLED, a man of the world. 

FLEA AND LOUSE, a bad house. 

FLOUNDER AND DAB (two kinds of flat fish), a cab. 

FLY MY KITE, a light. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE RHYMING SLANG. 271 

FEOG AND TOAD, the main road. 

GARDEN GATE, a magistrate. 

GERMAN FLUTES, a pair of boots. 

GIRL AND BOY, a saveloy,— a penny sausage. 

GLORIOUS SINNER, a dinner. 

GODDESS DIANA (pronounced dianer), a tanner,— sixpence. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (vulgo pudden), a woman. 

HANG BLUFF, snuff. 

HOD OF MORTAR, a pot of porter. 

HOUNSLOW HEATH, teeth. 

I DESIRE, a fire. 
I'M AFLOAT, a boat. 
ISLE OF FRANCE, a dance. 

ISABELLA (vulgar pronunciation, isabeller), an umbrella. 

I I SUPPOSE, the nose. 
JACK DANDY, brandy. 

JACK RANDALL (a noted pugilist), a candle. 

JENNY LINDER, a winder,— vulgar pronunciation of window. 

JOE SAVAGE, a cabbage. 

LATH AND PLASTER, a master. 

LEAN AND LURCH, a church. 

LEAN AND FAT, a hat. 

LINENDRAPER, paper. 

LIVE EELS, fields. 

LOAD OF HAY, a day. 

LONG ACRE, a baker. 

LONG ACRE, a newspaper. See the preceding. 

LORD JOHN RUSSELL, a bustle. 

LORD LOVEL, a shovel. 

LUMP OF COKE, a bloak, --slang term for a man. 

LUMP OF LEAD, the head. 

MACARONI, a pony. 

MAIDS A DAWNING (I suppose my informant means maids 

adorning), the morning, 
MAIDSTONE JAILOR, a tailor. 
MINCE PIES, the eyes. 
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER, water. 



Hosted by G00gk 



212 GLOSSARY OF 

MUFFIN BAKER, a Quaker. 

NAVIGATORS, fcaturs, — vulgar pronunciation of potatoes. 

NAVIGATOR SCOT, baked potatoes all hot. 

NEEDLE AND THREAD, bread. 

NEVER FEAR, a pint of beer. 

NIGHT AND DAY, go to the play. 

NOSE AND CHIN, a winn, — ancient cant for a penny. 

NOSE-MY", backy, — vulgar pronunciation of tobacco. 

OATS AND BARLEY, Charley. 

OATS AND CHAFF, a footpath. 

ORINOKO (pronounced orinokee), a poker. 

OVER THE STILE, sent for trial. 

PADDY QUICK, thick ; or, a stick. 

PEN AND INK, a stick. 

PITCH AND FILL, Bill,— vulgar shortening for William. 

PLATE OF MEAT, a street. 

PLOUGH THE DEEP, to go to sleep. 

PUDDINGS AND PIES, the eyes. 

READ OF TRIPE (?), transported for life. 

READ AND WRITE, to fight. 

READ AND WRITE, flight.— See preceding. 

RIVER LEA, tea. 

ROGUE AND VILLAIN, a shillin, — common pronunciation of 

shilling. 
RORY r O'MORE, the floor. 
ROUND THE HOUSES, trouses, — vulgar pronunciation of 

trousers. 
SALMON TROUT, the mouth. 
SCOTCH PEG, a leg. 
SHIP IN FULL SAIL, a pot of ale. 
SIR WALTER SCOTT, a pot,— of beer. 
SLOOP OF WAR, a whore. 
SNAKE IN THE GRASS, a looking glass. 
SORROWFUL TALE, three months in jail. 
SPLIT ASUNDER, a costermonger. 
SPLIT PEA, tea. 
SPORT AND WIN, Jim. 
STEAM PACKET, a jacket. 



Hosted by G00gk 



THE RHYMING SLANG. 

>T. MARTINS- LE- GRAND, the hand. 

>TOP THIEF, beef. 

.UGAR AND HONEY, money. 

UGAR CANDY, brandy. 

'AKE A FRIGHT, night. 

'HREE QUARTERS OF A PECK, the neck,— in writing, 

pressed by the simple u §." 
THROW ME IN THE DIRT, a shirt. 
TOMMY' O'RANN, scran, — vulgar term for food. 
TOM TRIPE, a pipe. 
OM RIGHT, night. 
TOP JINT (vulgar pronunciation of joint), a pint. — of beer. 
TOP OF ROME, home. 
TURTLE DOVES, a pair of gloves. 
TWO FOOT RULE, a fool. 
WIND DO TWIRL, a fine girl. 



Hosted by G00gk 



Hosted by GoOgle 



BIBLIOGBAPHY 

OF 

SLANG, CANT, AND VULGAR LANGUAGE 



LIST OF THE BOOKS WHICH HAVE BEEN CONSULTED IN COM- 
PILING THIS WORK, 

COMPRISING NEARLY EVERY KNOWN TREATISE UPON TDE SUBJECT. 



Slang has a literary history, the same as authorised 
language. More than one hundred works have 
treated upon the subject in one form or another, — 
a few devoting but a chapter, whilst many have 
given up their entire pages to expounding its his- 
tory and use. Old Harm an, a worthy man, who 
interested himself in suppressing and exposing 
vagabondism in the days of good Queen Bess, was 
the first to write upon the subject. Decker fol- 
lowed fifty years afterwards, but helped himself, 
evidently, to his predecessor's labours. Shakespere, 
Beaumont and Fletcher, Ben Jonson, and Brome, 
each employed beggars' Cant as part of the ma- 
chinery of their plays. Then came Head (who 
wrote "The English Rogue," in 1680) with a 

T 2 



Hosted by G00gk 



276 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 

glossary of Cant words "used by the Gipseys." 
But it was only a reprint of what Decker had 
given sixty years before. About this time author- 
ised dictionaries began to insert vulgar words, 
labelling them ;t Cant." The Jack Sheppards and 
Dick Turpins of the early and middle part of the 
last century made Cant popular, and many small 
works were published upon the subject. But it 
was Grose, burly, facetious Grose, who, in the year 
1785, collected the scattered glossaries of Cant and 
secret words, and formed one large work, adding 
to it all the vulgar words and Slang terms used in 
his own day. I am aware that the indelicacy and 
extreme vulgarity of the work renders it a dis- 
grace to its compiler, still we must admit that it is 
hy far the most important work which has ever 
appeared on street or popular language; indeed, 
from its pages every succeeding work has, up to 
the present time, drawn its contents. The great 
fault of Grose's book consists in the author not 
contenting himself with Slang and Cant terms, but 
the inserting of every " smutty" and offensive word 
that could be raked out of the gutters of the streets. 
However, Harm an and Grose are, after all, the 
only authors who have as yet treated the subject in 
an original manner, or have written on it from 
personal inquiry. 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 277 



AINSWORTH'S (William Harrison) Novels and Ballads. 

London, v. D. 

Some of this author's novels, such as Eookwood and Jack Sheppard, 
abound in cant words, placed in the mouths of the highwaymen. 
The author's ballads (especially "Nix my dolly pals fake away,") 
have long been popular favourites. 

ANDREWS' (George) Dictionary of the Slang and Cant Lan- 
guages, Ancient and Modern, 12mo. London, 1809 
A sixpenny pamphlet, with a coloured frontispiece representing a 
beggar's carnival. 

A NEW DICTIONARY OF THE JAUNTING CREW, 12mo. 

N. D. 
Mentioned by John Bee in the Introduction to his Sportsman's Slang 
Dictionary. 

ASH'S (John, LL.D.) New and Complete Dictionary of the 
English Language, 2 vols. 8vo. 1775 

Contains a great number of cant words and phrases. 

BACCHUS AND VENUS ; or, a Select Collection of near 200 

of the most Witty and Diverting SoDgs and Catches in Love 

and Gallantry, with Songs in the Canting Dialect, with a 

Dictionary, explaining all Burlesque and Canting Terms, 

12mo. 1738 

Prefixed is a curious woodcut frontispiece of a Boozing Ken. This 

work is scarce, and much prized by collectors. The Canting 

Dictionary appeared before, about 1710, with the initials P.. E. on 

the title. It also came out afterward.3, in the year 1751, under the 

title of the Scoundrel's Dictionary, — a mere reprint of the two 

former impressions. 

BAILEY'S (Nath.) Etymological English Dictionary, 2 vols, Svo 

1737 
Contains a great many cant and vulgar words ; — indeed, Bailey does 
not appear to have been very particular what words he inserted, so 
long as they were actually in use. A Collection of Ancient and 
Modem Cant Words appears as an appendix to vol. ii. of this 
edition (3rd). 

BANG-UP DICTIONARY, or the Lounger and Sportsman's 

Vade Mecum, containing a copious and correct Glossary of 

the Language of the Whips, illustrated by a great variety of 

original and curious Anecdotes, Svo. 1S12 

A vulgar performance, consisting of pilferings from Grose, and 

made-up words with meanings of a degraded character. 

BARTLETTS Dictionary of Americanisms ; a Glossary of 

Words and Phrases colloquially used in the United States, 

Svo. New York, 1859 

It is a curious fact connected with slang that a great number of 

vulgar words common in England are equally common in the 



Hosted by G00gk 



278 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 



United States ; and when Ave remember that America began to 
people two centuries ago, and that these colloquialisms must have 
crossed the sea with the first emigrants, we can form some idea of 
the antiquity of popular or street language. Many words, owing 
to the caprices of fashion or society, have wholly disappeared in 
the parent country, whilst in the colonies they are yet heard. The 
words skine:, to serve drink in company, and the old term kick- 
ing or meeching, skulking or playing truant, for instance, are 
still in use in the United States, although nearly, if not quite, 
obsolete here. 

BEAUMONT and FLETCHER'S Comedy of The Beggar 's Bush, 
4to, 1661, or any edition. 

Contains numerous cant words. 

BEE'S (Jon.) Dictiouary of the Turf, the Ring, the Chase, the 
Pit, the Bon Ton, and the Varieties of Lite, forming the 
courpietest and most authentic Lexicon Balatronicum 
hitherto offered to the notice of the SportiDg World, by 
Jon. Bee [i.e. John Badcock], Esq., Editor of the Fancy, 
Fancy Gazette, Living Picture of London, and the like of 
that, v 12mo< " 1823 

This author published books on Stable Economy under the name of 
Hinds. He was the sporting rival of Pierce Egan. Professor 
V. ilson, in an amusing article in BlaclcwoooV s Magazine, reviewed 
this work. 

BEE'S (Jon.) Living Picture of London for 1828, and Stranger's 
Guide through the Streets of the Metropolis ; shewing the 
Frauds, the Arts, Snares, and Wiles of all descriptions of 
Rogues that everywhere abound, 12mo. 1828 

Professes to be a guide to society, high and low, in London, and to 
give an insight into the language of the streets. 

BEE'S (Jon.) Sportsman's Slang, a New Dictionary of Terms used 
in the affairs of the Turf, the Ring, the Chase, and the 
Cockpit ; with those of Bon Ton and the Varieties of Life, 
forming a Lexicon Balatronicum et Macaronicum, <£c\, 12mo, 
plate. For the Author, 1825 

The same as the preceding, only with an altered title. Both wretched 
performances, filled with forced and low wit. 

BLACKGUARDIANA ; or, Dictionary of Rogues, Bawds, &c, 
8vo, with portraits [by James Cauljield]. 1795 

This work, with a long and very vulgar title, is nothing but a reprint 
of Grose, with a few anecdotes of pirates, odd persons, &c, and some 
curious portraits inserted. It was concocted by Caulfield as a 
speculation, and published at one guinea per copy ; and, owing to 
the remarkable title, and the notification at the bottom, that^'only 
a few copies were printed," soon became scorce. For philological 
purposes it is not worth so much as any edition of Grose. 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CAST. 279 

BOXIANA, or Sketches of Modern Pugilism, by Pierce Egan (an 
account of the prize ring), 3 vols, Svo. 1820 

Gives more particularly the cant terms of pugilism, but contains nu- 
merous (what were then styled) "flash" words. 

BRANDON. Poverty, Mendicity, and Crime; or, the Facts, 
Examinations, &c, upon which the Report was founded, 
presented to the House of Lords by W. A. Miles, Esq., to 
which is added a Dictionary of the Flash or Cant Language, 
known to every TJiief and Beggar, edited by H. Brandon, 
Esq., 8vo. 1839 

A very wretched performance. 

BROME'S (Rich.) Joviall Crew; or the Merry Beggars. Pre- 
sented in a Comedie at the Cockpit, in Drury Lane, in the 
Year (4 to.) ~ 1652 

Contains many cant words similar to those given by Decker, — from 
whose works they were doubtless obtained. 

BROWN'S (Rev. Hugh Stowell) Lecture on Manliness, 12mo. 

1857 
Contains a few modern slang words. 

BRYDGES' (Sir Egerton) British Bibliographer, 4 vols, Svo. 

1810—14 
Vol ii., page 521, gives a list of cant words. 

BULWER'S (Sir Edward Lytton) Paul Clifford. v. d. 

Contains numerous cant words. 

BULWER'S (Sir Edward Lytton) Pelham. v. d. 

Contains a few cant terms. 

BUTLER'S Hudibras, with Dr. Grey's Annotations, 3 vols, Svo. 

1819 
Abounding in colloquial terms and phrases. 

CAMBRIDGE. Gradus ad Cantabrigiam • or a Dictionary of 
Terms, Academical and Colloquial, or Cant, which are used 
at the University, with Illustrations, 12mo. Camb., 1803 

CANTING ACADEMY ; or Villanies Discovered, wherein are 
shewn the Mysterious and Yillanous Practices of that 
Wicked Crew — Hectors, Trapanners, Gilts, &c, with several 
new Catches and Songs ; also Compleat Canting Dictionary, 
12 mo., frontispiece. ' 1674 

Compiled by Richard Head. 

CANTING ; a Poem, interspersed with Tales and additional 
Scraps, post Svo. 1814 

A few words may be gleaned from this rather dull poem. 



Hosted by G00gk 



2 SO BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 

CANTING DICTIONARY; comprehending all the Terms, 
Antient and Modern, used in the seveial tribes of Gypsies, 
Beggars, Shoplifters, Highwaymen, Foot Pads, and all other 
Clans of Cheats and Villains, with Proverbs, Phrases, Figu- 
rative Speeches, &c, to which is added a complete Collection 
of Songs in the Canting Dialect, 12mo. 1725 

The title is by for the most interesting part of the work. A mere 
make-up of earlier attempts. 

CAREW. Life and Adventures of Bamfylde Moore Carew, the 
King of the Beggars, with Canting Dictionary, portrait, 8vo. 

1791 
There are numerous editions of this singular hi ography. The Canting 
Dictionary is nothing more than a filch from earlier hooks. 

CHARACTERISMS, or the Modern A^e Displayed; being an 
attempt to expose the Pretended Virtues of Both Sexes, 
12mo (part i., Ladies; part ii., Gentlemen), E. Owen. 1750 

An anonymous work, from which some curious matter may be 
obtained. 

CONYBEARE'S (Dean) Essay on Church Parties, reprinted from 
the Edinburgh Review, No. CO., October, 1853, 12mo. 1858 
Several curious instances of religious or pulpit slang are given in 
this exceedingly interesting little volume. 

COTTON'S (Charles) Geuuine Poetical Works, 12mo. 1771 

Searronides, or Virgil Travestie, being the first and fourth Books of 

Virgil's iEneis, in English burlesque, Svo, 1672, and other works 

bv this author, coDtain numerous vulgar words now known as 

slang. 

DECKER'S (Thomas) The Bellman of London; bringing- to 
light the most notorious villanies that are now practised in 
the Kingdome, 4to, ijlatfe letter. London, 1608 

Watt says this is the first book which professes to give an account 
of the canting language of thieves and vagabond's. Cut this is 
wrong, as will have been seen from the remarks on Harm an, who 
collected the words of the vagabond crew half a century before. 

DECKER'S (Thomas) Lanthorne and Candle-light, or the Bell- 
man's Second Night's Walke, in which he brings to light a 
brood of more strange villanies than ever were to this year 
discovered, 4 to. London, 1608 9 

TLis is a continuation of the former work, and contains ibe Carder's 
Dictionary, and has a frontispiece of the London Watchman with 
his staff broken. 

DECKER'S (Thomas) Gulls Hornbook, 4to. 1609 

"This worlc affords a greater insight into the fashionable follies and 

vulgar habits of Q, Elizabeth's day than perhaps any other extant." 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 281 



DECKER'S (Thomas) per se 0, or a new Oyer of Lanthorne 

and Candle-light, an Addition of the Bellman's Second 

Night's Walke, 4to, btarfc letter. 1612 

A lively description of London. Contains a Canter's Dictionary, 

every word in "which appears to hi-.ve been taken from Barman 

without acknowledgment. This is the first work that gives the 

Canting Song, a verse of which is inserted at page 20 of the 

Introduction. This Canting Song was afterwards inserted in 

nearly all Dictionaries of Cant. 

DECKER'S (Thomas) Villanies discovered by Lanthorne and 
Caudle-light, and the Helpe of a new Cryer called per se 
0, 4to. ' 1616 

" With Canting Songs neuer before printed." 

DECKER'S (Thomas) English Vilbuies, e«ght several times 

prest to Death by the Printers, but still reviving again, are 

now the eighth time (as at the first) discovered by Lanthorne 

and Candle-light, &c , 4to. 1648 

The eighth edition of the " Lanthorne and Candle-light." 

DICTIONARY of all the Cant and Flash Languages, both An- 
cient and Modern, 18mo. Bailey, 1790 

DICTIONARY of all the Cant and Flash Languages, 12mo. 

London, 1797 

DICTIONARY of the Canting Crew (Ancient and Modern), of 
Gypsies, Beggars, Thieves, &c, 12mo. n.d. [1700] 

D1CTIONNAIRE des Halle, 12ino. Bruxelles, 1696 

This curious Slang Dictionary sold in the Stanley sale for £4 16s. 

DUCANGE ANGLICUS.— The Vulgar Toiunie : comprising 
Two Glossaries of Slang, Cant, aud Flash "Words and Phrases 
used in London at the present day, 12mo. 1857 

A silly and childish performance, full of blunders and contradictions. 
A second edition appeared during the past year. 

DUNCOMBE'S Flash Dictionary of the Cant Words, Queer 
Sayings, and Crack Terms now in use in Flash Cribb So- 
ciety, 32mo, coloured 'print. 1820 

DUNTON'S Ladies Dictionary, 8vo. London, 1694 

Contains a few cant words. 

EGAN. Grose's Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue, 
with the addition of numerous Slang Phrases, edited by 
Pierce Egan, 8vo. 1823 

The best edition of Grose, with many additions, including a Life of 
this celebrated antiquaii.ni. 



Hosted by G00gk 



^Z BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 

EGAN'S (Pierce) Life in London, 2 vols, thick 8vo, with coloured 

plates by Geo. Or mlc shank, representing high and low life. IS — 

Contains numerous cant, slang sporting, and vulvar words, supposed 

by the author to form the basis of conversation in life, high and 

low, in JLondon. 

ELWYN'S (Alfred L.) Glossary of supposed Americanisms— 
Vulgar and Slang Words used in the United States, small 
Svo. 1359 

GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE, Svo. n.d. 

"In a very early volume of this parent magazine were given a few 
pases, by way of sample, of a Slang Vocabulary, then termed Cant. 
If, as we suspect, this part of the Magazine fell to the share of Dr. 
Johnson, who was then its editor, we have to lament that he did 
not proceed with the design." — John Bee, in the Introduction to his 
Slang Dictionary, 1825. 

GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE, vol. xcii., p. 520. 

Mention made of slang. 

GLOSSARIES of County Dialects. v.d. 

Many of these will repay examination, as they contain cant and slang 
words, wrongly inserted as provincial or old terms. 

GOLDEN CABINET (The) of Secrets opened for Youth's de- 
lightful Pastime, in 7 parts, the last beiug the " City and 
Country Jester;" with a Canting Dictionary, by Dr. Sur- 
man, 12 mo. London, n.d. (1730) 

Contains some curious woodcuts. 

GREENE'S (Robert) Notable Discovery of Coosuage, now daily 
practised by sundry lewd persons called Conie- catchers and 
Crosse biters. Plainly laying open those pernitious sleights 
that hath brought many ignorant men to confusion. Writen 
for the general benefit of all Gentlemen, Citizens, Aprentices, 
Country Farmers, and Yeomeu, that may hap to fall into 
the company of such coosening companions. With a de- 
lightful discourse of the coosnage of Colliers, 4to, with 
woodcuts. Printed by John Wolfe, 1591 

The first edition. A copy of another edition, supposed to be unique, 
is dated 1592. It was "sold at the Heber sale. 

GREENE'S (Robert) Ground worke of Couny-Catching, the 
manner of their pedlers' French, and the meanes to un- 
derstand the same, with the cunning slights of the Conter- 
feit Cranke. Done by a Justice of the Peace of great 
Authoritie, 4 to, with woodcuts. 1592 

Usually enumerated among Greene'3 work?, but it is only a reprint, 
with variations, of 1 'Jar man's Caveat, and of which Fowland com- 
plains in his Martin Markall. The second and third parts of this 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 283 

curious work were published in the same year. Two other very 
rave volumes by Greene were published— The Defence or Cony- 
CaUhiug, 4to, in 1592, and The Black Bookes Messengeb, in 
1595. They both treat on the same subjects. 

GROSE'S (Francis, generally styled Captain) Classical Dic- 
tionary of the Vulgar Tongue, 8vo. 173 
The much sought after First Edition, but containing nothing, as 
far as I have examined, which is not to be found in ihe second and 
third editions. As respects indecency, I find all the editions 
equally disgraceful. The Museum copy of the Fust EdUvm. is, I 
suspect, Grose's own copy, as it contains numerous manuscript 
additions which afterwards went to form the second ediuon. Ex- 
cepting the obscenities, it is really an e.Uraordiuary book, and 
displays ercat industry, if we cannot speak much of its morality. 
It is the well from which all the other authors— Duncorabe, Caul- 
field, Clarke, Esan, &c. &c— drew their vulgar outpourings, with- 
out in the least'purilying what they had stolen. 

HAGGART. Life of David Haggart, alias Jobn Wilson, alias 
Barney M'Coul, written by himself while under sentence of 
Death, curious frontispiece of the Prisoner in Irons, inter- 
mixed with all the Slang and Cant Words of the Day, to 
which is added a Glossary of the same, 12 mo. 1821 

HALL'S (B. H.) Collection of College Words and Customs, 
12mo. Cambridge (U. S.), 1856 

Very complete. , The illustrations are excellent. 
HALLIWELL'S Archaic Dictionary, 2 vols, 8vo. 1855 

An invaluable work, giving the nant words used by Decker, Brome, 
and a few of those mentioned by Grose. 

HARLEQUIN Jack Shepherd, with a Night Scene in Gro- 
tesque Characters, Svo. {About 1736) 
Contains Songs in the Canting dialect. 
HARMAN'S (Thomas, Esq.) Caveat or Wareuing for Common 
Cursetors, vulgarely called Vagabones, set forth for the 
utilitie and proiit of his natural!, couutrey, augmented and 
inlarged by the first author thereof; whereuuto is added 
the tale of the second taking of the counterfeit Crank, with 
tbe true report of his behaviour and also his punishment 
for his so dissembling, most marvellous to the hearer or 
reader thereof, newly imprinted, 4to. 

Imprinted at London, by E. Middleton, 1573 
Contains the earliest Dictionary of the Cant language. Four editions 
were printed — William Griffith. . 1566 

1567 

1567 

Henry Middleton, 1573 
What GrosS & Dictionary* of the- Vulgar Tongue was to the authors 
of the earlier part of the present century, liarman's was to the 
Deckers, and l3rom.es, and Heads of the seventeenth. 



Hosted by G00gk 



284 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 

HARRISON'S (William) Description of the Islaud of Britain 
(prefixed to Holinshed's Chronicle, 2 vols, folio. 1577 

Contains an account of English vagabonds. 

HAZLITT'S (William) Table Talk, 12mo (vol. ii. contains a chap- 
ter on Familiar Style, with a notice on Slang Terms.) v. D. 

HEAD'S (Richard) English Rogue, described in the Life of 
Meriton Latroon, a Witty Extravagant, 4 vols., 12mo. 

Frans. Kirkman, 1671-80 
Contains a list of cant words, evidently copied from Decker. 

HELL UPON EARTH, or the most pleasant and delectable 
History of Whittington's Colledge, otherwise vulgarly called 
Newgate, 12mo. 1703 

HENLEY'S (John, better "known as orator henley) Various 
Sermons and Orations. 1719-53 

Contain numerous vulgarisms and slang phrases. 

[HATCHING'S (Charles, formerly City Marshal, now a Prisoner 
in Newgate)] Regulator ; or, a Discovery of the Thieves, 
Thief-Takers, and Locks, alias Receivers of Stolen Goods in 
and about the City of London, also an Account of all the 
plash words now in vogue amongst the Thieves, &c, 8vo., 
vert rare, with a curious woodcut. 17 L8 

A violent attack upon Jonathan Wild. 

HOUSEHOLD WORDS, No. 183, September 24. 

Gives an interesting but badly digested article on slang ; many of 
the examples are wrong. 

JOHNSON'S (Dr. Samuel) Dictionary (the earlier editions). v.D. 
Contains a great number of words italicised as cant, low, or barbarous. 

JONSON'S (Ben.) Bartholomew Fair, ii., 6. 

Several cant words are placed in the mouths of the characters. 

JONSON'S (Ben.) Masque of the Gipsies Metamorphosed, 4to. 

16 — 
Contains numerous cant words. 

KENT'S (E.) Modem Flash Dictionary, containing all the Cant 
Words, Slang Terms, and Flash Phrases now in Vogue, 
18mo., coloured frontispiece. 1825 

L'ESTRANGE'S (Sir Roger) Works (principally translations). 

v. D. 
Abound in vulgar and slaDg phrases. 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 285 



LEXICON Balatronicurn; a Dictionary of Buckish Slang. Uni- 
versity Wit, and Pickpocket Eloquence, by a Member of 
the Whip Club, assisted by Hell-fire Dick, Svo. 1811 

One of the many reprints of Grose's second edition, put forth under a 
fresh, and what was then considered more attractive title. It was 
given out in advertisements, &c, as a piece of puff, that it was 
edited by a Dr. H. Clarke, but it contains scarcely a line more 
than Grose. 

LIBER VAGATORUM : Der Betler Orden, 4to. 

The first edition of this book appears to have been printed at 
Augsburg, by Erhard Oglin, or Ocellus, about 1514, — a small 
quarto of twelve leaves. It was frequently reprinted at otiier 
places in Germany; and in 1523 there appeared an edition at 
Wittembevg, with a preface by Martin Luther, who says that the 
" liotwelsche Sprach," the ca'nt language of the beggars, comes 
from the Jews, as it contains many Hebrew words, as anyone who 
understands that language may perceive. This book is divided 
into three parts, or sections,- the first gives a special account of 
the several orders of the " Fraternity of Vagabonds ;" the second, 
sundry "notoMlia" relating to the different classes of beggars 
previously described; and the third consists of a " Rotwelsche 
Vocabulary," or "Canting Dictionary." There is a long notice of 
the "Liber Vagatorum" in the " Wiemarisches Jahrbuch," J,"^, 
Band, 1856. Mayhew, in his " London Labour," states that many 
of our cant words are derived from the Jew fences. It is singular 
that, a similar statement should have been made by Martin Luther 
more than three centuries before. 

LIFE IN ST. GEORGE'S FIELDS, or the Rambles and Ad- 
ventures of Disconsolate William, Esq., and his Surrey 
Friend, Flash Dick, with Songs and a flash dictionary, 
8vo. 1821 

MAGINN (Dr.) wrote Slang Songs in Blackwood's Magazine. 

1827 

MAYHEW'S (Henry) London Labour and London Poor, 3 vols, 
8vo. % 1851 

An invaluable work to the inquirer into popular or street language. 

MAYHEW'S (Henry) Great World of London, Svo. 1857 

An. unfinished work, but containing several examples of the use and 
application of cant and slang words. 

MIDDLETON (Thomas) and DECKER'S (Thomas) Roaring 
Girl; or Moll Cut Purse, 4to. 1611 

The conversation in one scene is entirely in the so-called Pedlar's 
French. It is given in Dudslcy's Old J-'Uuis. 

MODERN FLASH DICTIONARY, 48mo. 1825 

The smallest slang dictionary ever printed. 



Hosted by G00gk 



2S6 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 

MONCRIEFFS Tom and Jerry, or Life in London, a Farce in 
Three Acts, 12mo. 1820 

An excellent exponent of the false and forced ''high life" which 
was so popular during the minority of George IV. ~The farce had 
a run of a hundred nights, or more, and was a general favourite 
for years. It abounds iu cant, and the language of " gig," as it 
was then often termed. 

MORNINGS AT BOW STREET, by T. Wright, 12mo, with 
Illustrations by George Oruihshanh. Tegy, 1838 

In this work a few etymologies of slang words are attempted. 

NEW CANTING DICTIONARY, 12mo. n. d. 

A copy of this work is described in RocUVs Catalogue of EUgant LiU- 
raiure, 18-15, part iv., No. 2128- with manuscript notes and addi- 
tions in the autograph of Isaac Reed, price £1 8s. 

NEW DICTIONARY of the Terms, Ancient and Modern, of 
the Canting Crew in its several tribes of Gypsies, Beggars, 
Thieves, Cheats, &c, with au addition of some Proverbs, 
Phrases, Figurative Speeches, <£&, by B. E. Gent, 12mo. 

N> D. [1710] 

Afterwards issued under the title of Bacchus and Venus, 1737, and in 
1754 as the Scoundrel's Dictionary. 

NEW DICTIONARY of all the Cant and Flash Languages 
used by every class of offenders, from a Lully Prigger to a 
' High Tober Gloak, small 8vo., pp. 62. 179— 

Mentioned by John Bee. 

NOTES AND QUERIES. The invaluable Index to this most 
useful periodical may be consulted with advantage by the 
seeker after etymologies of slang and cant words. 

PARKER. High and Low Life, A View of Society in, being the 
Adventures in England, Ireland, &c, of Mr. G. Parker, a 
Stage Itinerant, 2 vols in 1, thick 12mo. 

Printed for the Author, 1781 

A curious work, containing many cant words, with 100 orders of 
rogues and swindlers. 

PARKER'S (Geo.) Life's Painter of Variegated Characters, with 
a Dictionary of Cant Language and Flash Son: s, to which 
is added a Dissertation on Freemasonry, portrait, 8vo. 1789 

PEGGE'S (Samuel) Anecdotes of the English Language, chiefly 
regarding the Local Dialect of London and Environs, 8vo. 

1803—41 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 287 

PERRY'S (William) London Guide and Stranger's Safeguard, 
against Cheats, Swindlers, and Pickpockets, by a Gentleman 
who has made the Police of the Metropolis an object of 
enquiry twenty -two years (no wonder when the author was 
in prison a good portion of that time !) 1818 

Contains a dictionary of slang and cant words. 

PHILLIPS' New World of Words, folio. 1696 

PICKERING'S (F.) Vocabulary, or Collection of Words .and 
Phrases which have been supposed to be peculiar to the 
United States of America, to which is prefixed an Essay on 
the present state of the English Language in the United 
States, 8vo. Boston, 1816 

The remark made upon Bartletfs Americanisms applies equally to 
this work. 

PICTURE OF THE FANCY, 12mo. 18— 

Contains numerous slang terms. 

POTTER'S (H. T., of Clay, Worcestershire) New Dictionary of 
all the Cant and Flash Languages, both ancient and modern, 
8vo, pp. 62. 1790 

POULTER. The Discoveries of John Poulter, alias Baxter, 8vo, 
48 pages. (1770 ?) 

At pages 42, 43, there is an explanation of the "Language of 
Thieves, commonly called Cant." 

PRISON BREAKER, The, or the Adventures of John Shep- 
herd, a Farce, 8vo. London, 1725 
Contains a canting song, &c. 

PUNCH, or the London Charivari, 

Often points out slang, vulgar, or abused words. It also, occa- 
sionally, employs them in jokes, or sketches of character. 

QUARTERLY REVIEW, vol. x., p. 528. 

Gives a paper on Americanisms and slang phrases. 

RANDALL'S (Jack, the pugilist, formerly of the " Hole in the 
Wall" Cbancery-lane) Diary of Proceedings at the House 
of Call for Genius, edited by Mr. Breakwindow, to which 
are added several of Mr. B.'s minor pieces, 12mo. 1820 

Believed to have beenwrilten by Thomas Moore. The verses are 
mostly parodies of popular authors, and abound in the slang of 
pugilism, and the phraseology of the fast life of the period. 



Hosted by G00gk 



288 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 



RANDALL (Jack) A Few Selections from his Scrap Book ; to 
which are added Poems on the late Fight for the Champion- 
ship, 12mo. 1822 
Frequently quoted by Moore in Tom Crib's Memorial. 

SCOUNDREL'S DICTIONARY, or an Explanation of the Cant 
Words used by Thieves, Housebreakers, Street- robbers, and 
Pickpockets about Town, with some curious dissertations on 
the Art of Wheedling, &c, the whole printed from a copy 
taken on one of their gang, in the late scuffle between the 
watchmen and a party of them on Clerhenwell green, Sro. 

1754 
A reprint of Bacchus and Venus, 1737. 

SHARP (Jeremy) The Life of an English Rogue, 12mo. 1740 
Includes a " Vocabulary of the Gypsies' Cant." 

SHERWOOD'S Gazetteer of Georgia, U.S., 8vo. 

Contains a glossary of words, slang and vulgar, peculiar to the 
Southern States. 

SMITH'S (Capt.) Compleat History of the Lives and Robberies 
of the most Notorious Highwaymen, Foot-pads, Shop-lifts, 
and Cheats, of both Sexes, in and about London and West- 
minster, 12 mo, vol. i. 1719 
This volume contains " The Thieves New Canting Dictionary 

OF THE WOEDS, PEOVEEBS, &C, USED BY THIEVES." 

SMITH (Capt. Alexander) The Thieves Grammar, 12mo., 
p. 23. 17— 

A copy of this work is in the collection formed hy Prince Lucien 
Bonaparte. 

SMITH'S (Capt.) Thieves Dictionary, 12mo. 1724 

SNOWDEN'S Magistrate's Assistant, and Constable's Guide, 
thick small 8vo. 1852 

Gives a description of the various orders of cadgers, beggars, and 
swindlers, together with a Glossary of t/te Flash Language. 

SPORTSMAN'S DICTIONARY, 4to. 17— 

By an anonymous author. Contains some low sporting terms. 

STANLEYE'S Remedy, or the Way how to Reform Wandring 
Beggers, Thieves, etc., wherein is shewed that Sodomes Sin 
of Idlenes is the Poverty and the Misery of this Kingdome, 
4to. 1646 

This work has an engraving on wood which is said to be the veri- 
table original of Jim Crow. 



Hosted by G00gk 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 289 



SWIFT'S coarser pieces abound in vulgarities and slang ex- 
pressions. 

THE TRIUMPH OF WIT, or Ingenuity display'd in its Per- 
fection, being the Newest and most Useful AcaoVmy, Songs, 
Art of Love, and the Mystery and Art of Canting, toith 
Poems, Songs, <&c, in the Canting Language, 16mo. 

/. Clarice, 1735 
What is generally termed a shilling Chap Bool: 

THE TRIUMPH OF WIT, or the Canting Dictionary, being the 
Newest and most Useful Academy, containing the Mystery 
and Art of Canting, with the original and present manage- 
ment thereof, and the ends to which it serves and is em- 
ployed, illustrated with Poems, Songs, and various Intrigues 
in the Canting Language, with the Explanations, &c, 12mo. 

Dublin, n. d. 
A Chap Book of 32 pages, circa 1760. 

THOMAS (I.) My Thought Book, 8vo. 1825 

Contains a chapter on slang. 

THE WHOLE ART OF THIEVING and Defrauding Dis- 
covered : being a Caution to all Housekeepers, Shop- 
keepers, Salesmen, and others, to guard against Robbers of 
both Sexes, and the best Methods to prevent their Vil- 
lanies ; to wbich is added an Explanation of most of the 
cant terms in the Thieving Language, 8vo, pp. 46. 1786 

TOM CRIB'S Memorial to Congress, with a Preface, Notes, and 
Appendix by one of the Fancy [Tom Moore, the poet], 12 mo. 

1819 
A humorous poem, abounding in slang and pugilistic terms, with a 
burlesque essay on the classic origin of slang. 

VACABONDES, The Fraternatye of, as well of ruflyng Vaca- 
bones, as of beggerly, of Women as of Men, of Gyrles as of 
Boyes, with their proper Names and Qualities, with a De- 
scription of the Crafty Company of Cousoners and Shifters, 
also the XXV. Orders of Knaves ; otherwyse called a Quar- 
tern of Knaves, confirmed by Cocke Lorell, 8vo. Imprinted 
at London by John Awdeley, dwellyng in little Britayne 
streete without Alder sgate. 1575 

Itis stated in Ames' Ti/pog. Antiq., vol. ii , p. 885, that an edition 
bearing the date 1565 is in existence, and that the compiler was no 
other than old John Audley, the printer, himself. This conjecture, 
however, is very doubtful. As stated by Watt, it is more than 
probable that it was written by Harman, or was taken from his 
works, in MS. or print. 

U 



Hosted by G00gk 



290 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SLANG AND CANT. 



VAUX'S (Count de, a swindler and a pickpocket) Life, written 
by himself, 2 vols., 12mo, to which is added a Canting 
Dictionary. 1819 

These Memoirs were suppressed on account of the scandalous pas- 
sages contained in them. 

WEBSTER'S (Noah) Letter to the Hon. John Pickering, on the 
Subject of his Vocabulary, or Collection of Words and 
Phrases supposed to be peculiar to the United States, 8vo, 
pp. 69. Boston, 1817 

WILD (Jonathan) History of the Lives and Actions of Jonathan 
Wild, Thieftaker, Joseph Blake, alias Blue skin, Footpad, 
and John Sheppard, Housebreaker; together with a Cant- 
ing Dictionary by Jonathan Wild, woodcuts, 12mo. 

1750 

WILSON (Professor) contributed various Slang pieces to Black- 
wood's Magazine ; including a Review of Bee's Dictionary. 

WITHERSPOON'S (Dr., of America) Essays on Americanisms, 
Perversions of Language in the United States, Cant phrases, 
&c, 8vo., in the 4th vol. of his Works. Philadelphia, 1801 

The earliest work on American vulgarisms. Originally published in 
a series of Essays, entitled the Drv.id, which appeared in a 
periodical in 1761. 



Hosted by G00gk 



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS, &c. 



A . N. — Anglo-Norman. 

Ancient or Ancient English— Whenever these terms are employed, it 

is meant to signify that the words to which they are attached were 

in respectable use in or previous to the reign of Elizabeth.— See Old. 

Ancient Cant— In use as a cant word in or previous to the reign of 

Elizabeth. 
A. S — Anglo-Saxon. 
Beds.— Bedfordshire. 
Cor.— A corruption. 
East— Used in the Eastern Counties. 
Eng.— English. 
Fren— French. 
Ger. — German. 
(7Jomc.— -Gloucestershire. 
Hants.— Hampshire. 
Ital— Italian. 

X. j? — Lingua Franca, or Bastard Italian. 
Lot. — Latin. 
Line— Lincolnshire. 
Midx.— Middlesex. 
N. D.— No date. 
Norf.— Norfolk. 
Old, or Old English— -In general use as a respectable word in or previous 

' to the reign of Charles the Second. — See Ancient. 
Old Cant— -In use as a cant word in or previous to the reign of Charles II. 
Oxon. — Oxfordshire . 
Prov. — Provin cial. 
Pug.— Pugilistic. 
Sal., or Salop— Shropshire. 

Sew;.— Saxon, or Anglo-Saxon. 

Scot— Scotch. 

Sea— Used principally by Sailors. 

Shaks. — Shakspeare. 
Som. — Somerset. 

Span.— Spanish. 
Siif— Suffolk. 

Tlieat. —Theatrical. 

Teut. — Teutonic. 

V, D. — Various dates. 

West— Used in the Western Counties. 

Wilts.— Wiltshire. 

Wore— Worcestershire. 

Yorks. —Yorkshire. 



"Hosted by G00gk 



Hosted by GoOgle 



New Books Published by 
JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN, 

151b, PICCADILLY. 



Now ready, Second Edition, beautifully printed, Fcap. 8vo, pp. 316, 
cloth, extra, 4s. 6d., 

A Dictionary of Modern Slang, Cant, 

and VULGAR WORDS, vised at the present day in the Streets of London ; 
the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge ; the Houses of Parliament ; 
the Dens of St. Giles ; and the Palaces of St. James : preceded by a 
History op Cant and Vulgar Language from the time of Henry VIII. , 
sJwicing iU connection with the Gipsey Tongue ; with Glossaries op 
Two Secret Languages, spoken by the Wandering Tribes of London, the 
Costermongers, caul the Patterers. By a London Antiquary. Fcp. 8vo. 
extra cloth. With a curious Woodcut, "A Cadger's Map of a 
Beggar's District," and Explanation of the Hieroglyphics 
used by Vagabonds. 

" Rabble-charming words, which carry so much wild-fire wrapt up in them." 
South, 

S^ 3 The Second Edition, entirely rewritten, with more than two 
thousand additional words, and a mass of fresh information not included in 
the first issue. 

This interesting work is an important contribution to popular philology, as 
it chronicles for the first time nearly Five Thousand Words used by persons 
of every denomination in common conversation, most op which are con- 
tained in no English Dictionary whatever. The origin of many cant 
and slang words is also traced. 



OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. 



" The author has spared no pains to make his little volume perfect, both by 
collecting original and unused material from costermongers, vagabonds, and. 
tramps, and by consulting nearly all writers who have gone before. * * * 
The author divides Slang into historical, fashionable, parliamentary, mili- 
tary and dandy, ■university, religions, legal, literary, theatrical, civic, money, 
shopkeepers' and -workmen's slang, — the slang apologies for oaths, and the slang 
of drunkenness. The Freemasonry of tramps and beggars, and the hiero- 
glyphics they use, is an interesting part of vagabond history that requires, if 
possible, further investigation. * * * His work is carefully and honestly 
performed, and we hope that the writer will read our remarks [five full 
columns] in a proper spirit, and, in the latest slang of the present hour, will 

" TAKE THEM ON HIS HEAD LIKE A BIRD." — Athenaeum. 

" Extremely interesting. This little volume is evidently the result of a 
great deal of labour, as all works must be that are, in the chief part, collected 
directly by the observation and care of the author : and this we believe is the 
case in the present instance. The author we suspect to be identical with the 
publisher, and if so, he has had great opportunitj 7 by his possession of a large 
amount of scarce tracts, ballads, and street publications, of mforming him- 
self of the language of the vagabond portion of our population." — Leader. 



Hosted by G00gk 



294 JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN's LIST. 

" There is a certain amount of interest in preserving the origin of slang 
words as a record of existing manners, and of those strange popular sayings 
which have a rapid and almost universal popularity, and then fade away as 
rapidly. The combinations of language in cant are often curious. The 
London Antiquary informs us that the cant for a public house at the present 
day is suck cassa, — pure Saxon and pure Spanish."— Saturday Review. 

" This is by far the most complete work upon a curious subject which has 
yet been compiled — a dictionary of more than three thousand words in cur- 
rent use in our streets and alleys, lanes and by-ways, from which the learned 
lexicographers have turned aside with contempt." — Critic. 

" This new Dictionary of our English cant and slang is fidl, and may be 
received as an amusing and suggestive little book of common knowledge into 
any household. Indecency has been omitted from its pages." — Examiner. 

" The ' London Antiquary' has certainly taken up a very curious and in- 
teresting branch of linguistic research." — Notes omcI Queries. 

" An instructive as well as amusing work. The author may be congratu- 
lated upon the successful issue of his labours in the field of vagabond and 
unrecognised speech." — Titan in an article of ten pages. 

"An amusing work, and a most useful and valuable contribution to the 
study of words. It is absolutely necessary to all those who in fast life would 
"mind their P's and Q's," as well as to the readers of our newspaper and 
periodical literature."— Montrose Review. 

" We do not wonder that of so quaint and entertaining a compilation a new 
edition should so soon have been demanded." — Globe. 

" Contains a good deal of curious historical and anecdotical information, 
and is altogether a well got up, well edited, and amusing little volume."— 
Shipping Gazette. 

" Evinces a great amount of industry."— Morning Star. 
-~^> 

Beautifully printed, 12mo., cloth, 3s. 6d., 
THE CHOICEST HUMOROUS POETRY OF THE AGE. 

The Biglow Papers. By James Russell 

LOWELL. (Alluded to by John Bright in the House of Commons.) 
WITH AN ILLUSTRATION BY GEORGE CRUIKSHANK. 

*** This Edition has been Edited with additional Notes explanatory of the 
persons and subjects mentioned therein. 

" The rhymes are as startling and felicitous as any in 'Hudibras.' 'Sam 
Slick is a mere pretender in comparison."— Blackwood's Magazine. 

" The fun of the ' Biglow Papers * is quite equal to the fun of the < In- 
goldsby Legends/ This is the real doggerel, the Rabelaiesque of poetry. — 
Eraser. 

fGW There is an edition of this work extant, hastily got up after my own 
wasTnnounced, edited by Mr. Hughes, the author of Tom Brown's School Bays 
It gives an introduction, long and occasionally amusing, but of not the least 
value in explaining to the English, reader the peculiarities of the work. Tne 
Globe pointed out this sad defect in reviewing the present edition :- The 
copy beside us," remarks the writer, " is apparently edited and published by 
Mr Hotten, who gives a preface -which has the rare merit of explaining 
exactly what the ordinary English reader requires to know of satirical political 
Poems written in the Yankee dialect, touching the Mexican war, and the 
extension of the slave states-and of attempting to explain nothing else. - 
Globe. Dec. 8, 1859. 



Hosted by G00gk 



JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN'S LIST. 295 

Now ready, Second Edition, fcap. 8vo, neatly printed, price Is., 

Macaulay ; the Historian, Statesman, 

and ESSAYIST : Anecdotes of his Life and Literary Labours, -with some 

Account of his Early and Unknown Writings. 

*** Also, a fine paper Edition, cloth, neat, with a Photographic Portrait 

(the only one known to have been taken) by Maull and Polyblank, price 2s. 6d. 

fg"^ 3 Includes Anecdotes of Sydney Smith, Mooee, Rogers, and Lord 

Jeffrey ; and gives numerous examples of Lord Macaulay's extraordinary 

memory and great powers of conversation. 



"A brilliant sketch of the great historian, containing particulars of his 
youthful compositions, which are new and deeply interesting."— Hera Id. 

" We regard the little work before us as a very opportune publication. 
The author lias brought tos-ether such a mass of facts, sketches, and anec- 
dotes, illustrative of the character and mind of Lord Macaulay, that the 
book is very valuable as supplying, in a small compass, a faithful and vivid 
account of the great historian." — Bradford Revmo. 

" An interesting account of a man who was an ornament to our nation. Of 
the extraordinary capacity and availability of his memory many wonderful 
stories are told.— Evangelical Repository. 

" This work is well timed. Here we really have all that is known con- 
cerning the great man. The little book brings together with much dexterity 
and success very various and very scattered materials. Yfe have been 
peculiarly interested in the details of the late illustrious Baron's youthful 
productions. Never before has Wordsworth's famous couplet, "The boy is 
father of the man," received so vivid illustration. It is earnestly to be hoped 
that the whole of these early papers, and his inedited speeches and addresses 
written and spoken in the flush of his powers, and with all the wealth of 
illustration that so distinguished him, shall be collected. Why not at once 
by the writer of the present brilliant sketch? We know not who he is, but 
he is a man of no common powers. He has evidently, too, put his heart into 
his book. It thrills and throbs with reverent love towards the man. We 
like exceedingly his fresh, generous, glowing style ; and not less his genial, 
gossipy way of telling the many anecdotes with which his pages sparkle." — 
Advertiser. 

" Valuable from the original matter and anecdotes it gives concerning 
Macaulay's youthful productions." — Leader. 

" We hear Mr. Hotten's little book on Macaulay is a success. Ten thousand 
copies sold within a few days 1" — Critic. 



Now ready, New and Popular Edition, neatly printed, fcap. Svo, pp. 336, 
price 2s. 6d., 

Anecdotes of the Green Room and 

STAGE ; or Leaves from an Actor's Note-Book, at Home and Abroad, 

by GEORGE VANDENHOFF. 
gg^ Mr. Vandenhoff, who earned for himself, both in the Old and New 
Worlds, the title of The Classic Actor, has retired from the Stage. His 
reminiscences are extremely interesting, and include Original Anecdotes of 
the Keans (father and son), the two Kembles, Maeready, Cooke, Liston, 
Farren, Elliston, Braham and his Sons, Phelps, Buckstoue, Webster, Chas. 
Mathews : Siddons, Vestris, Helen Faucit, Mrs. Nisbett, Miss Cushman, 
Miss O'Neil, Mrs. Glover, Mrs. Chas. Kean, Rachel, Ristori, and many 
other dramatic celebrities. 



Hosted by G00gk 



296 JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN'S LIST. 

Now ready, post 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d., 

Rubbing the Gilt Off: a West End Book 

for All Eeaders. By JOHN HOLLINGSHEAD, Author of " Under 
Bow Bells, a City Book for All Eeaders." 

WITH A HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATION. 

Con-tents. 



The Humiliation of Fogmoor. 

A Pet of the Law. 

Navy Dry Rot. 

How to Make a Madman. 

Nine Kings. 

An Official Scarecrow. 

A Model Theatre. 



The Suffering Sinecurist. 
A National Christmas Bill. 
The Social Reformer. 
Mudfog on Colonies. 
Diplomatic World. 
The Man behind my Chair. 
Wanted, a Court Guide. 



u Clever and sagacious writing." — Athenmcm. 

" As a collection of papers which, through all their whimsical fancies, 
develope a political system with an earnestness and a consistency that are 
rare, we can cordially recommend Mr. Hollingshead's book." — Leader and 
Saturday Analyst. 

"Mr. Hollingshead has lost nothing of his dramatic power."— Critic. 

"The stories are no less interesting and amusing than instructive." — 

Morning Star. 

"Mr. Hollingshead has considerably widened his range of humorous 
illustration, still keeping, however, to the field of political economy."— Daily 
Neios. 



Now ready, fcap. 8vo, cloth, price 3s. 6d., beautifully printed, 

Gog and Magog ; or, the History of the 

Guildhall Giants. With Some Account of the Giants which Guard 
English and Continental Cities. By F. W. FAIRHOLT, F.S.A. 

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS ON WOOD BY THE AUTHOR, COLOURED 
AND PLAIN. 

*♦* The critiques which have appeared upon this amusing little work have 
been uniformly favourable. The Athenceum pronounces it a perfect model of 
successful antiquarian exposition, readable from the first line to the last. The 
Art Journal devotes a considerable space to the little work, and congratulates 
the author upon his success. The Leader contributes two full columns of 
eulogy. The Builder directs its readers to purchase it. The Critic says, in a 
long article, that it thoroughly explains who these old Giants were, the posi- 
tion they occupied in popular mythology, the origin of their names, and a 
score of other matters, all of much interest in throwing a light upon fabulous 
portions of our history. 



Hosted by G00gk 



JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN S LIST. 



297 



Now ready, in 8vo, 4s., blue cloth and gold, 

Photographic Pleasures : Popularly 

pourtrayed with Pen and Pencil. By CUTHBEET BEDE, B.A., Author 
of "Verdant Green," &c. 

WITH SEVENTY HUMOEOUS DESIGNS BY THE AUTHOR 

" The ludicrous side of Photography is fair game for the caricaturist. 
With much cleverness Mr. Bede has seized the salient points of the new 
art." — Athenaum. 

" The work is full of illustrations, radiant with the raciness of Cruikshank, 
the broad and round humour of Eowlandson, knowledge of the world of 
Doyle, and quick apprehension of Leech."— Herald. 



NEW WOEK BY THE LATE DOUGLAS JEEEOLD. 
Nearly ready, in Two Vols. Svo, cloth, extra, 

Old Wine in New Bottles : Tales and 

Sketches of Life and Character, by DOUGLAS JEEEOLD, edited, with 
an Introduction, by his son, Blanchard Jerrold. With Illustrations by 
John Leech. 

**.* This work will contain some of the most characteristic pieces from the 
pen of the master wit— tales hitherto unknown and untold. Amongst others 
may be enumerated : — 



Some Account of a Stage Devil. 

Baron von Botts, a Tale of Blood. 

A Chapter on Black Dogs. 

The Actress at the Duke's. 

Papers of a Gentleman-at-Arms. 

Bully Bottom's Babes. 

The Eocking Horse. 

My Husband's Winnings: a House- 
hold Incident. 

The Lamp-post: a Household Nar- 
rative. 



Midnight at Madame T.'s. 
The Old Boatman. 
Solomon's Ape- 
Patty Larkspur's Watch. 
The Tutor Fiend; and his Three 

Pupils. 
Lizzy's Back Hair. 
Christopher Snub, who was Born'd to 

be Hang'd. 
Eecollections of Guy Fawkes, &e. 

&c. 



Nearly ready, in fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 

A Pedlar's Wallet : Filled from House- 
hold Words, by DUDLEY COSTELLO. 

This work will comprise some of the best papers contributed to Charles 
Dickens' famous periodical. 



Hosted by G00gk 



298 JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN'S LIST. 



Nearly ready, beautifully printed, fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d. 

The Choicest Jests of English Wits; 

from the Eude Jokes of the A.ncient Jesters, to the refined and im- 
promptu Witticisms of Theodore Hook and Douglas Jerrold. Including 
the Cream of Joe Miller : comprising the best Sayings, Facetiovs and 
Merry, which have contributed to give to our country the name of Merry 
England. 



Nearly ready, beautifully printed, on fine paper, fcap. 8vo, pp. 350, price 5s., 

The History of Playing Cards, and the 

VARIOUS GAMES connected with them, from the Earliest Ages ; 
with some Account of Card Conjuring, and Old-Fashioned Tricks. 

ILLUSTRATED WITH FORTY CURIOUS WOODCUTS ON TINTED 
PAPER. 

This most amusing work, introducing the reader to a curious chapter of 
our social history, gives an interesting account, replete with anecdotes, of 
the most popular and widely known pasi tme which has ever been invented 
by man for his amusement. A morei nstructive and entertaining book could 
not be taken in hand for a pleasant hour's reading. 



Two Vols, royal 8vo, handsomely printed, £2 8s. 

Ancient Songs, Ballads, and Dance 

TUNES of the Olden Time, illustrative of the National Music of 
England, with Introductions to the different Reigns, and Notices of the 
Airs from Writers of the Sixteenth Century ; also a Short Account of 
the Minstrels, by W. CHAP PELL, F.S.A. 

This interesting work forms the largest and most complete collection of 
Ancient British Ballads and Songs ever published. The words are from the 
original old copies, and the addition of the Old Tunes to which they were 
formerly sung is an interesting and most curious feature. Several fac- 
similes adorn the work. 



Preparing for publication, fcap. 8vo, beautifully printed, 

Old English Ballads, relating to New 

England, the Plantations, and other Parts of North America; with 
Ancient Poetical Squibs on the Puritans and the Quakers who emigrated 
there ; now first collected from the original excessively rare Broadsides 
sold in the streets at tbe time, and edited with Explanatory Notes. Illus- 
trated with facsimiles of the very singular woodcuts which adorn, the 
original Songs and Ballads. 



Hosted by G00gk 



JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN'S LIST. 299 



Preparing for publication, "beautifully printed, post 8vo, half morocco, 
Roxbu<-ghe style, 

Garland of Pepysian Ballads, Historical, 

ROMANTIC, and HUMOROUS, some illustrating Shakespere, edited by 
EDWARD P. RIMBAULT, Esq., LL.D. 

It is well known that the unfortunate regulation imposed by Pepys, the 
celebrated diarist, that his Manuscripts and Books should never be examined 
save in the presence of a Fellow of the College at Cambridge where They aTe 
preserved, has hitherto alone prevented the collecting and publishing some 
of the more interesting of these world-renowned Ballads and Songs. The 
difficulty, however, has been surmounted by Dr. Rimbault, aided by the 
authorities of Magdalene College ; and the lovers of our charming old popular 
poetry will be glad to know that a Garland of these Balladian ditties is in 
course of publication. The work will be preceded by an Introduction on 
Ballad Lore, Ballad Writers, and Ballad Printers, giving some new and in- 
teresting particulars gathered from " old bookes," and other sources, hitherto 
unexplored The publisher would state that the work will be beautifully 
printed by Whittingham, and that it will be adorned by a curious woodcut 
facsimile frontispiece. 



Nearly ready, in small 4to, half morocco, very neat, 

An hitherto unknown Poem, written by John Bunyan, whilst confined in 

Bedford Jail, for the Support of his Family, entitled, 

Profitable Meditations, Pitted to Man's 

DIFFERENT CONDITION ; in a Conference between Christ and a 
Sinner. By JOHN BUNYAN, Servant to the Lord Jesus Christ. 
London .- Printed for Francis Smith at tlu Sign of the Elephant and Castl-e 

without Temple Bar, 1661 
This very interesting, though melancholy literary memorial of the Author 
of the celebrated Pilgrim's Progress, will be choicely reprinted by Whitting- 
ham, from the only known copy lately discovered by the publisher. It will be 
edited, with an Introduction by George Offor, Esq. The impression will be 
limited. 



Now ready, price 5s. 

Magna Charta. An Exact Facsimile of 

the Original Document, preserved in the British Museum, very carefully 
drawn, and printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, 
with the Akms and Seals of the Babons elabobately emblazoned 

IN GOLD AND COLOtJES. A.D. 1215 

COPIED BY EXPRESS PERMISSION, and the only correct drawing of 
the Great Charter ever taken. This important memorial of the liberties and 
rights of Englishmen is admirably adapted for framing, and would hang with 
propriety from the walls of every house in the country. As a guarantee to 
the purchaser that the facsimile is exact, the publisher need only state that 
Sir Frederick Madden has permitted copies to hang for public inspection upon 
the walls of the Manuscript Department in the British Museum. It was 
executed by Mr. Harrison, under whose auspices the splendid work on the 
Knights of the Garter was produced some years ago. 



Hosted by G00gk 



300 JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN'S LIST. 

A "LITERARY AND PHILOLOGICAL CUEIOSITY. 
Shortly will be published, in square 12rao, beautifully printed, price 3s. 6d., 

The Book of Vagabonds and Beggars, 

(Liber Vagatoeum : Der Better Ore! en), with a Vocabulary of then- Lan- 
guage (Rotiodsche Sprach) ; edited, with Preface, by MARTIN LUTHER, 
in the year 1523. Now first Translated into English, with Notes, 
by JOHN CAMDEN HOTTEN. 
*** This very singular work is comparatively unknown in this country. 
The first edition appears to have been printed at Augsburg, by Erhard Oglin, 
or Ocellus, as early as 1514— a small quarto of twelve leaves. It was frequently 
reprinted at other places in Germany ; and in 1528 there appeared an edition 
at Wittemberg, with a Preface by Martin Luther, from which the present 
translation has been made. The work is divided into three parts or sections ; 
the first gives a special account of the several orders of the " Fraternity of 
Vagabonds;" the second, sundry notabilia relating to the different classes of 
beggars previously described j and the third consists of a Canting Dic- 
tionary. It is singular that more than three centuries ago Martin Luther 
should have declared that the cant language of beggars comes from the 
Hebrews, and that in our own time a similar statement should be made by 
Mayhew in his London Labour. Mayhew says that many of the most expressive 
street terms in every day use by London and provincial vagabonds are derived 
from the Jew Fences. 



Now ready, fcap. Svo, beautifully printed by Whittingham, price 2s., 

Letters of the Marchioness Broglio Solari, 

one of the Maids of Honour to the Princess Lamballe, &c ; with a Sketch 
of her Life, and Recollections of Celebrated Characters (intended to have 
been sold at 5s.) 
The Marchioness Broglia Solari was the natural grand-daughter of Lord 
Hyde Clarendon, and consequently one of the collateral branches of the 
Queens Mary and Ann, and their grand-father, the great Chancellor of 
England. She played an important part in the French Revolution; was the 
friend of Emperors and Princes ; was intimately acquainted with George the 
Fourth, Burke, Sheridan, Madame de Stael, the Duke of Wellington, Sir 
Robert Peel, Sir H. Davy, Paganini, &c, of most of whom she gives charac- 
teristic anecdotes. The' Marchioness endured many troubles, was robbed of 
her fortune, and for some time obtained her living as an actress at the theatres 
of London and Dublin. This work was published by an intimate friend, and 
the entire impression (with the exception of a few copies) passed into the 
hands of the family. It is believed that only 150 copies were printed. The 
book (by those who know of its existence) has always been considered as a 
suppressed work. 

^ 

[In preparation.] 

The History of English Popular Litera- 
ture, with some Account of Cheap or Chap-Books, Penny and Six- 
penny Histories, Old Romances, Fairy Tales, Books of Wonder, Garlands 
and Penny Collections of Ballads, Books of Recipes and Instruction, 
Jest Books, &e.; also the History op the Rise of Cheap Serial 
Literature. Svo. 
This very important work will range with Ni sard's History of French Popular 
Literature, 2 vols., Paris, 1854. It will be illustrated with numerous exceed- 
ingly curious woodcuts, many by Faibholt, and several from the original 
blocks used by the old London Bridge and Aldermary Church Yard publishers. 



Printed by Taylor & Greening, Graystoke- place, Fetter-lane, London, E.C. 

Hosted by G00gk 



Hosted by GoOgle 



Hosted by GoOgle
